Now that the DA has elected a white man as its interim
leader, it will find it harder – at least in the interim period – to lead on
some crucial, uncomfortable discussions we must have in a still racially polarised
South Africa. Don’t get me wrong, John Steenhuisen is a fine gentleman and
a committed South African who, I have no doubt, wants the best for this
country; and he is not a racist. But his messages on race-based policies are already not receiving
the attention and responses they should because many will be blinded by the
colour of his skin. As he speaks, some people will be gazing at his skin colour,
mouths agape, imagining the spectre of Helen Zille standing behind him, urging
him on. And instead of engaging the content of his calls, they will talk past
him; either by deliberate, cynical, choice, or by historic conditioning. This, sadly, is the South Africa we still live in, in almost
2020. And it shouldn’t be. To function well and to have a semblance of balance even in
a one party dominated political environment, the South African democracy must
continue to have strong opposition and many voices that do not simply toe the
line. But the opposition party that has to lead on dissenting voices in
parliament cannot be seen to only, or primarily, represent the interests of
racial minorities. Otherwise the majority – already protected by a raft of
race-based policies aimed at dealing with a stubborn legacy of a slowly
receding past – will see it fit to push back, resulting in the racial unity
many have sacrificed so much for remaining a dream deferred. I know that many will disagree, but it made sense, 25 years
ago, to introduce policies such as affirmative action and BEE in order to
create an environment that would enable a progressive inclusion of the excluded
into the mainstream of social and economic life in South Africa. The historic
exclusions had been systemic and too harsh for nothing to be done to attempt to
bridge the divides. In fact, it would have been madness not to try. The key mistake that was made was to leave out sunset
clauses, to omit a date, a time period - e.g. 20 years later - when the said
race-based policies would come under an independent, objective, evaluation.
This would be done to see the extent to which they would have had the desired
impact. And such an evaluation would not only have to focus on the
extent to which beneficiaries of race-based policies would have begun to
benefit from their implementation. That would only be one side of the equation. It would also have to look at the extent to which they
impacted the "other side", specifically young white South Africans
who were born in the years following the end of apartheid; and especially those
who come from poor white families who cannot afford to take their kids through
university or lack silver platters to hand over to them, as many assume all whites
to be in a position to. As things stand, there seems to be an unintended
collective punishment of such citizens on the basis only of their skin colour. It cannot be right that it remains politically inappropriate
to start a conversation about why a young white citizen who starts a business
must first look for black friends/business partners to own a significant
ownership of it if such a business is to stand a chance of getting project work
from the government of his/her own country; a government to which he/she too
pays taxes. Or that the seeming implementation of race-based policies into
perpetuity drives young white South Africans to no longer hope for a future
here; a country to whose fortunes they could be nurtured to contribute to
because they too would be seeing themselves as sharing its fate. Conundrum In his recent public utterances, Steenhuisen seemed to be
lamenting the DA’s 2019 electoral loss; determined to win back people who left
the DA, ostensibly for the FF+, and to return the party to its "core
values". At face value, he seems to have lost sight of the
possibility that the party he now leads had to necessarily experience an
electoral dip before it could rise again to become the political machine it
must be if it is to stand any chance of unseating the ANC. At least that is
what the Mmusi Maimane led DA had been telling us in recent years. The DA cannot have it both ways. Either it goes back to its
roots and remains a well-funded opposition machine staring the governing party
of the day in the eyes, primarily representing the rights of minorities, and
spending millions of rand in the courts to get what it wants; struggling to be
taken seriously by the majority of South Africans. Or it accept that an
electoral dip was necessary but that it would be a short one, allowing the
party to re-calibrate its policies from those of a small sectoral party to a
one with unstoppable national ambitions. Self-flagellating over the 2019 electoral loss is a
strategic error of potentially great proportions, as it will forces party
strategists to focus their energy on regaining votes the DA needed to lose in
order to grow, instead of coming up with future- facing winning strategies. An inclusive SA In any case,
DA or no DA, we, South Africans, need to come to terms with one basic fact: that
our country will always by a racially, ethnically, culturally, and religiously
diverse one. Some people may leave but many others will stay. And those who
leave will always be South African, wherever they go, potential constructive
ambassadors or our country around the world. We will
always need the goodwill they can generate in their new homes around the world
to help us attract investments and other foreign exchange earning
opportunities. Celebrating their departure is both foolish and shortsighted,
which amount to the same thing. The
question becomes, what kind of country do we want to be known for? One that
that would have overcome the horrific burden of race-based policies imposed by
one group over the other by leading the way in ensuring that history never
repeats itself, or one that simply reversed the situation by visiting the
horrors of race-based policies upon others? * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.