Tiger Brands [JSE:TBS] reported a 17% decline in its headline earnings
per share, as it still battles to shake-off the effects of the listeriosis
outbreak impacting its processed meats business. The food and beverages company, which owns brands such as value-
added meat products manufacturer Enterprise and baby products Elizabeth Anne
and Purity, on Friday released its financial results for the year ended September
30. Tiger Brands said that the unbundling of fishing group
Oceana [JSE:OCE], during the period, as well as a challenging operating environment and a
slower than expected recovery in its value-added meat market impacted its full
year results. "Tiger Brands' results for the year ended 30 September
2019 reflect the difficult trading conditions, characterised by an increasingly
challenging consumer environment and input costs rising ahead of price
inflation," the report read. "The overall result was significantly impacted by
ongoing margin compression across the Grains portfolio, tough trading
conditions in the group's primary export markets and the slower than
anticipated recovery of the value-added meat products business. "The unbundling of the company's investment in Oceana
also had a significant impact on year-on-year comparisons," the report
read Headline earnings per share declined 17% to 1 349c ,
compared to 1 633c reported in 2018. Earnings per share increased 55% to 2
346c, compared to 1 530c reported in 2018 – due to a capital surplus of R2bn,
arising from capital profits realised and a fair value gain relating to the
unbundling its interest in Oceana. "This capital surplus had no impact on
headline earnings per share as it is excluded for headline earnings
purposes," the group clarified. A final cash dividend of 434c was declared, bringing the
total dividend of the year to 1 061c per share. The company however managed to increase revenue by 3% to
R29.2bn, driven by price inflation of 5%. Operating income declined 20% to
R2.6bn, excluding the impact of the value-added meat products business, the
group operating income would have only declined by 11% to R3.2bn. During the period, the group closed Deli Foods, in Nigeria,
which had been loss-making. "The process is expected to be concluded in
the next few months," the report read. Tiger Brands also plans to sell its value-added meat
products business which includes brands Enterprise, Bokkie and Renown. The
group indicated that a formal due diligence process is still underway. Last year government traced the outbreak of listeriosis to
an Enterprise factory in Polokwane, Fin24 previously reported. A large class
action lawsuit has since been launched against Tiger Brands. Earlier in November, Tiger Brands issued a shareholder
notice indicating that following a review its board concluded that the business
should be disposed. The company also said that it had received several bids for
the business. 