Parliament's Standing Committee on Public Accounts took to the Compensation Fund to the woodshed for receiving yet another disclaimer of audit opinion, as well as for apparently removing instances of irregular expenditure from its annual report after submitting it to Parliament. The Compensation Fund exists as a mechanism to offer compensation to vulnerable employees who suffer from serious injuries and diseases as a result of occupational risks and hazards, in terms of the Compensation for Occupation Injuries and Diseases Act. The Compensation Fund collected more than R9.3bn in the 2018-19 financial year. However, it has also received multiple disclaimer audit opinions in recent years, relating to its procurement of ICT support, among other things. At the beginning of the meeting in Parliament, Scopa chair Mkhuleko Hlengwa said he had received communication that the Compensation Fund revised its report with line items of irregular expenditure removed. Hlengwa asked the Compensation Fund delegation to explain. Compensation Fund Commissioner Vuyo Mafata was also surprised that there were two sets of reports before the committee. Parliamentary Liaison Officer Thando Wababa told Hlengwa that the Compensation Fund told Scopa the fund had sent the second report on Monday, as this was a "revised Compensation Fund report" it had received from the Department of Employment and Labour. Scopa member Bheki Hadebe demanded to know from the delegation where the revised version of the report came from and why six annexures detailing irregular expenditure were absent from the revised version. "How did it suddenly occur to you over the weekend that cases you notified us about would be written off? And these all have to do with IT," said Hadebe. Minister of Labour and Employment Thulas Nxesi told Scopa that the Compensation Fund and the department needed to look at the fundamentals of governance as well as the performance and consequence management of the entities. "When looking at the Compensation Fund, we really share the committee’s view that there are challenges where it relates to accounting, job retention and attrition. There are nine years of disclaimers which point to systemic problems," said Nxesi. Members of the Compensation Fund delegation told Scopa that the expenditure detailed in the annexures was investigated again and found to be above board. Hlengwa was not convinced by the explanation, telling the Compensation Fund delegation that its disclaimed audit opinion spoke for itself.