It’s been a quarter of a century since mobile technology came to South Africa. That’s more than a dozen two-year upgrade cycles. A good time, then, to change the business model and bring greater flexibility and convenience into the market, says iStore, South Africa’s official Apple Premium Reseller. iStore now makes it easy to turn your previously loved products into new ones by allowing customers to trade-in up to five of their own Apple products for an upfront discount on the price of a new product at iStore. “The trade-in offer makes it more affordable and convenient than ever to get a brand-new iPhone every year,” explains iStore CEO Chris Dodd. Besides your iPhone, you can trade-in your iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV, using your trade-in value to discount the purchase of any new product, or you can get your trade-in value as an iStore Gift Card to be used at a later stage or to use when upgrading your cellphone contract. For example, here are standardised iStore trade-in values: Other options to get your hands on a new iPhone include contracts and upgrades, financing through FNB, and a range of attractively-priced Apple Certified Pre-Owned iPhones, or CPOs. “For some customers, the traditional contract or upgrade is still the most convenient path to a new iPhone,” says Dodd. “At iStore, this route is available through Vodacom, MTN, and Telkom, regardless of where the original contract was initiated.” Those not wanting to commit to a contract might prefer the payment plan from FNB. The buy-for-cash option allows consumers to use their FNB credit card budget facility to payoff an iPhone at a reduced interest rate of 10.25%, as well as, choose their network SIM for greater flexibility and freedom. After 12 or 24 months, you have the option of trading in your device, allowing you to offset your outstanding instalments and purchase a brand-new iPhone. “Whatever your choice, whatever your plan, there’s an iPhone just for you at iStore, waiting for you to go out and do whatever it takes to change the world,” says Dodd. This post is sponsored, provided and paid for by iStore. 