Africa's Business Revolution: How to
Succeed in the World's Next Big Growth Market. By Acha Leke, Musta Chironga, et
al. You dismiss the African continent as an
investment opportunity at your peril. Here are some facts you should know. Africa
has a population of 1.2 billion people and is undergoing an historic economic
revitalisation. Hundreds of large companies have sprung up in Africa and
significant numbers of international firms have already built successful
businesses there. But most importantly, there is much room for more. The continent has a massive, (and that is
not to be taken lightly,) unfilled demand, which makes it an inviting arena for
entrepreneurship and innovation at an equally massive scale. If you get both
your strategy and execution right, you can be extraordinarily profitable. The value of this book is that it both highlights
the opportunities, as well as the dangers and provides valuable insight into
how to navigate this potential. Two of the authors are, and one was, a senior partner
at McKinsey, giving them both an international perspective on big business, and
access to superb, quality information. The first part of the book identifies five
big and important trends that hold spectacular opportunities. At the same time
each comes with significant challenges which will sabotage such attempts if
they are not addressed. Africa is a fast-growing continent which
will have a staggering 1/5 of humanity by 2025! It has an expanding labour
force which implies an expanding group of consumers. This demographic outstrips
both India and China. Currently Africa has a huge agricultural population, but
it is shifting to an urban population faster than any other region in the
world. While one may intuitively think of an urban population as having
significant spending power – even urban spending power is low in Africa. By
western standards, there are and will still be high levels of economic inequality. With Africa’s rising domestic demand both
from their expanding population and urbanization, a trillion-dollar opportunity
to industrialize Africa exists. Development of this size is required to respond
to domestic demand, and at the same time would enable one to expand into global
export markets. However, this staggering opportunity will
require that anyone taking it on overcome equally staggering barriers to
success. These range from power outages, transportation, and water shortages,
to trade barriers, and to a myriad of productivity challenges. These challenges are not lost on either African
governments or the private sector, both of which are making significant efforts
to close the infrastructure gaps. But the massive backlog is a gargantuan
challenge. The colonialists invaded Africa for its
abundant resources of agriculture, mining, oil and gas. There is the prospect
of rising innovation and investment in these sectors, which will unlock much
needed accelerated food production, as well as wealth for the continent. But as
with manufacturing, the formidable barriers must be overcome for this inherent,
readily available potential to stand a chance of success. Exciting mobile and digital technologies have
been shown to overcome some very real, previously insurmountable problems. They
range from the enormous barriers to accessing finance, to accessing information
on weather patterns, markets and exotic seed varieties. There are two big obstacles
to the unleashing of this latent basket of solutions. One is getting the
investment funding it will require, (the lesser of the two problems,) and
finding the necessary technical talent to make it happen with very necessary
localized nuances. To my mind the most valuable part of this
book lies in the second part, “How to Win in Africa”. Of course, your personal
investment appetite might relegate this to only an interesting issue, but it
cannot be insignificant for anyone in business. Africa is huge, and therefore requires
different approaches. It is bigger than the United States, China, Japan, India
and much of Europe… combined! Yes, it has a few highly populated countries,
such as Nigeria (190 million) Ethiopia (93 million) and Egypt (92 million), but
most countries’ populations are below 20 million. Just nine countries account
for ¾ of the continent’s GDP. With this physical size, and diversity of
population, combined with the range of economic strength and business
sophistication, it is imperative to set clear aspirations for investing in
Africa at the outset. The answer to this requirement will shape where, why and
how you will need to focus, and equally, where to avoid. Coca Cola chose the whole continent, as did
Sanlam, however others, such as the mobile payment start-up, Paga, felt that
Nigeria was big enough. You will clearly have to decide, and hopefully, decide
again as you succeed in your chosen geographies. Setting clear aspirations will
guide your expansion and aid a steady progression. Prioritising the markets that matter most
for your business is a must when the opportunities are large and your option
set, wide. Coca Cola focused on big cities because many of their bottlers use returnable
bottles. Where there are many Westerners, for example, the product offering
would differ appropriately. In Africa with the diversity of size and
income, your decision of where to start or where to grow will inevitably focus
on cities and not just countries. Within an underdeveloped economy there may
well be cities where your product or service is needed and affordable. Additionally, in developed countries you
don’t have the opportunity to get in early and to ride the growth wave. That
advantage was taken decades or even centuries ago. Not so in Africa: both its
population and economic fortunes still have a long runway. Recently a client mentioned having visited
an African country where private security escorted him to the home of his host.
The host was self-sufficient in every way, from water to electricity to personal
safety. In Africa, he pointed out to me, you have to supply what the government
should, but cannot. Aliko Dangote’s expansion into the
ecosystem for the goods he supplies, is based on this principle, but on a
billion-dollar scale. “Your strategic map of Africa should also
highlight where you have strong partners who can help you succeed – and where
you will need to invest in building out your business ecosystem,” the authors
explain. While the book’s focus is on very large
businesses that can grow into another African billion-dollar success, there is
much to be learned for the medium size business and how it can succeed. If you
are not planning on expanding into Africa any time soon, you will nevertheless
have several key perspectives changed by the time you finish reading this book. Readability         Light
----+- Serious Insights              High
+---- Low Practical              High -+--- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on
strategy and implementation, is the author of ‘Strategy that Works’ and a
keynote speaker. Views expressed are his own.