For a startling example of how opaque, and
even unfriendly, mining regulations have hampered economic development in South
Africa, look no further than the case of Aquila Steel’s Avontuur manganese
prospect. You have to go back about six years to a
prospecting dispute involving Aquila and the department of mineral resources
(DMR) regarding Gravenhage – a valuable manganese prospect situated at the top
portion of Avontuur in the Northern Cape. The dispute was a complex one that eventually
wound up in the Constitutional Court, pitching the rival claims of Aquila against
Pan African Mining Development Corporation (PAMDC), a shadily-composed
multi-government agency that alleged it had acquired the prospecting right over
Gravenhage first. As it turned out, the Constitutional Court
found in favour of Aquila, in which Chinese firm Baosteel has an 85%
controlling stake. The legal battle was a torturous process of
twists, turns and delay. A few reputations also got toasted in the
process, not least of which was former minister of mineral resources, Ngoako
Ramatlhodi. He was found to have incompetently overseen the dispute process,
according to a High Court ruling. But that’s another story. Now, however, the mining right over Gravenhage
has been finally awarded to Aquila, which is looking around for an adviser that
can help it assess potential partners to assist it develop a mine on
Gravenhage. To put this into perspective, this is new investment
worth $200m, based on Aquila’s 2012 feasibility study. Given that President
Cyril Ramaphosa has just concluded his second investment conference, which is
helping to raise funds as part of his $100bn, ten-year investment target, a new
mining project in a relatively undeveloped province couldn’t come at a more
apposite time. Market sources now suggest it’s full-steam
ahead on Gravenhage. The plan is to reboot the feasibility study on
which Aquila Steel had spent a tidy R160m. The study scoped for a 1.5m tonnes a
year manganese ore mine, operating for about 15 years with the opportunity for
life extension. Some 320 jobs would be created during
construction of the project and a further 700 in the permanent operational
phase. “Gravenhage is near Transnet rail facilities
and existing mines, so the infrastructure is good,” a market source told
finweek. He added that Aquila was happy to part with control of the project on
the basis that it doesn’t have much of a presence in SA anymore, and is not a
project developer in any case. It’s more an investor. However, there are some considerations. The
project’s social and labour plans have to be implemented in short course by
Aquila, which also doesn’t yet have a water use licence for the project which
it needs to process. Incoming partners may also find that Aquila’s shareholder,
Baosteel, will seek an offtake agreement for the manganese – a mineral used in
steelmaking. SA has an estimated 80% of the world’s
manganese reserves but only controls 33% of total manganese production, so it’s
a mineral that strategically ought to see more development in SA. The current
market players consist of Anglo American, which is in a joint venture with
South32, and Saki Macozoma’s Ntsimbintle Mining, a company that almost listed
this year and is known to be seeking opportunities for consolidation in the
manganese sector. This is an edited version of an article that
originally appeared in the 21 November edition of finweek. Buy
and download the magazine here or
subscribe to our newsletter here.