From clothing rentals to
shops on demand, retail trends are changing fast, says Dion Chang, trend
analyst and founder of Flux Trends. At the annual conference of
the SA Property Owners' Association (SAPOA) in Cape Town on Thursday, Chang
presented 10 trends, which, in his analysis, are reshaping the retail industry. Here's what to look out for. Transient ownership This includes rental car
sharing and will have a ripple effect on the property industry, in Chang's
view. In clothing retail there is
an increase in the uptake of so-called clothing rental - especially in the
upscale, vintage market of fashion clothing. Some big brands are even starting
to embrace the clothing rental market. Stealth bomber shoppers These consumers research
online where they can get what they want, then go to the mall, park as close as
possible to that particular store, rush in and rush out. Cleansers The "cleanser
tribe" likes to get rid of their belongings. They do not like to own lots
of "stuff" and rather to create more "stories". The 'free-from' movement Another rising
"tribe" is the so-called "free-from" movement. These consumers
eat a plant-based diet and prefer not to drink alcohol. Town square feeling "Digitisation has
killed the 'town square' purpose of shopping centres," said Chang. He said
some stores - like Apple - are now trying to bring back that "town
square" feel for shoppers in-store. Click and collect Another trend is having
"the last mile" of the shopping experience be digitised and on
demand. According to Chang, this is almost like meeting the shop halfway – not quite
online shopping, but not quite traditional brick-and-mortar shopping either. He gave an example of
Walmart in the US that created a huge refrigerated vending machine, where
customers can pick up their goods. Rethinking mall space According to Chang, as
shopping trends change, mall spaces are being redefined. This could also
include working spaces for use, including presentation rooms. "Your relationship
with your customer is not just transactional anymore. Brands and stores become
more like learning centres," said Chang. High art In terms of design, experience
becomes important. The retail space almost becomes elevated to a high art form,
with displays of produce creating a feeling not unlike an art gallery. For
example, said Chang, a vegan food store might display the fresh produce in a
beautiful and artistic way. Generation Z "Gen Z is the future
of shopping. The millennial bus has left. Millennials are now firmly in their
30s and managers. Gen Zs is the next generation of shoppers and workers,"
said Chang. "Their social
barometer is very high, and they will not give brand loyalty if you are not
sustainable and they will work for you only if you are transparent." He explained that for
Generation Z there is no line between online shopping and in-store shopping.
They use a mix of things. Experience Simply entertaining
consumers at a mall may bring more footfall, but not necessarily more revenue,
according to Chang. "Entertainment is not
the same as creating an experience. An experience is merging tech and brick-and-mortar
shopping to make it memorable for the customer," he explained. "For me it is about
providing creative retail services. Retail is not broken, it just needs to push
the right buttons with consumers to make sure they will keep coming back."