South African brick manufacturer Corobrik, currently building an environmentally friendly face brick factory, has clinched a ninth PMR.africa Diamond Arrow Award. Consultancy and research company, PMR.africa's annual awards go to the top performers in key sectors. A survey of 130 randomly selected building materials retailers and construction company representatives conducted between November 2018 and January 2019, identified Corobrik as South Africa's top brick company.  It was based on Corobrik's ability to meet orders, competitive pricing and quality and range of products. Other factors were flexibility, delivering on promises and response to queries, Black Economic Empowerment (BEE), implementation of environmental solutions and sustainable development practices. "Our approach to doing business is a holistic one and is based on the three pillars of sustainability - economic, environmental and social. We are extremely honoured not only receive this award this year but to have received it nine times," said Musa Shangase, Corobrik's commercial director, in a statement. The R800m mega factory that is under construction alongside Corobrik's existing Driefontein factory in Gauteng is due for commissioning next year. Corobrik currently operates 13 clay brick factories and 14 kilns countrywide which produce a mix of plaster and face bricks for the residential and commercial markets. Two concrete operations in Durban supply concrete paving and retaining walls. The new Driefontein facility will have the capacity to produce 100-million bricks per year, double that of the existing facility whilst requiring just a third of the energy currently used. In addition, the new operation will produce zero waste. Shangase said that in addition to investing in new plant and technology, Corobrik was also constantly analysing market trends and refining its product offerings. This led to the launch of a range of new paver sizes, patterns and designs as well as exciting new white and black face bricks.