MTN Group’s biggest shareholder is pushing for changes at
Africa’s largest mobile-phone company to avoid the regulatory, legal and
political disputes that have cut its share price by more than half over the
past four years. The Public Investment Corporation (PIC) built a 26% stake in
Johannesburg-based MTN by late November and used that to call for the
replacement of Chairman Phuthuma Nhleko, people familiar with the matter said.
Africa’s biggest fund manager, which is South African state owned, also sent a
letter to MTN demanding a board reorganisation, said one of the people. That
resulted in the appointment of more politically connected directors. Last month, the carrier obliged, announcing Nhleko’s planned
departure and replacement, along with other director changes and a new separate
group of prominent advisers. The PIC didn't respond to a request for comment.
Nhleko declined to comment. Interactions with the PIC have been at the board level, MTN
Chief Executive Officer Rob Shuter said in an interview in London last week. "An
important thing for them was on our board evolution," he said. MTN’s media
office didn’t comment further. The PIC was moved to act following a series of disputes in
Nigeria, Iran and elsewhere, the people said, asking not to be identified as
the concerns weren’t disclosed publicly. The biggest of those was a $5.2bn fine
in Nigeria in October 2015, which was eventually settled for less than $1bn
after about eight months of negotiations Wise men The PIC, which manages the pension funds of South African
government workers, wants the new chairman, former South African Deputy Finance
Minister Mcebisi Jonas, and the board to resolve outstanding issues such as a
$2bn tax dispute in Nigeria, the people said. MTN’s separate advisory board is
a council of "wise old men," who can directly contact lawmakers and
decision makers in the countries where MTN operates, one of the people said. The current board doesn't have a Nigerian director even
though that country is MTN's biggest market by subscribers. From July, it will
include Lamido Sanusi, a former Nigerian central bank governor who is now Emir
of Kano, the second-most influential Islamic position in the west African
country. Jonas is set to take over as chairman in December, MTN said
on May 3. Vincent Rague, a Kenyan International Finance Corporation veteran, is
also joining. Former president The advisory board will be chaired by Thabo Mbeki, a former
South African president who has mediated in a number of political disputes
across the continent, and will include a former Ghanaian president, John
Kufuor, and Mohamed Elbaradei, the one-time head of the International Atomic
Energy Agency. Nhleko, who is credited with playing a large part in
building the company into a continent-wide giant with 221 million customers,
will also sit on the advisory board. A catalog of disputes in MTN’s markets, which include
nations at war in the Middle East and Africa, have depressed the share price
and allowed Johannesburg-based rival Vodacom Group to surpass MTN in terms of
market capitalisation. Since MTN disclosed that the PIC had a 26% stake on November
29 the share price has gained 20% compared with a 6% decline for Vodacom. Disputes include: October 2015: MTN fined $5.2bn by a Nigerian
regulator for not disconnecting 5.1 million subscribers that didn’t have proper
documentation. While the penalty was eventually reduced to less than $1bn it
cost then-CEO Sifiso Dabengwa his job. The PIC, which held 13% of the company
at the time, said the board should have taken more responsibility. August 2018: Nigeria orders MTN and four banks to refund $8bn
in dividends that it said were illegally expatriated in the eight years through
2015. The company ended up agreeing to pay $52.6m four months later. September 2018: Nigeria’s attorney general orders MTN to pay
$2bn in taxes it says are owed. The dispute is ongoing. February 2019: South African police arrest a former
ambassador to Iran on corruption charges related to the award of a mobile-phone
license to MTN after it was initially given to Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS.
Turkcell has been taking legal action against MTN for several years. February 2019: The head of MTN’s business in Uganda is
deported over what the government there calls a "national security matter."
Three other executives were also deported. The CEO was cleared to return last
week. The PIC "need us to manage portfolio risk," MTN
Chief Financial Officer Ralph Mupita said in the London interview. "As a
company we operate in markets such as the Middle East and others, so how do we
manage the risk that come with sanctioned markets and other issues."