Aviation safety is always a top priority and the numbers
categorically show that flying is safe, an industry expert has assured. Alexandre de Juniac, CEO of the International Air Transport
Association (Iata) spoke at the industry body’s 75th annual general meeting in
Seoul, South Korea. He shared views on how the industry should treat fatal
accidents. In 2018 there was one major accident for every 5.4 million
flights. Over the last decade the fatal accident rate has improved by 59%, he
explained. "The recent Boeing Max accidents have, however, put
aviation's reputation in the spotlight. Serious questions arise with two
accidents of a new aircraft model in quick succession," said De Juniac. Regulators grounded the Boeing 737 Max 8 following two fatal
accidents, which killed 346 people, Bloomberg reported previously. "The consequences of these tragedies go far beyond the
technical. Trust in the certification system has been damaged – among
regulators, between regulators and the industry, and with the flying public,"
De Juniac said. Asked whether Iata will be involved in a joint action for
compensation from Boeing, De Juniac said that is outside Iata's scope. "At
the same time, we are trying to find alignment and stronger transparency
regarding the reintroduction of the Max 8 in the best way for everyone,"
he added. Akbar Al Baker, CEO of Qatar Airways and chair of Iata, said
that the industry body has full confidence in the regulators and in Boeing to
cooperate with the ongoing investigation and for a solution to be found. According to De Juniac, everyone must be confident that
processes are sufficiently thorough, not to warrant duplicative and
redundant examinations by jurisdictions. "While Boeing and the US Federal Aviation Administration
are at centre stage, the close collaboration of counterpart manufacturers and
civil aviation authorities around the world is essential. Any rift between
regulators is not in anybody's interest," said De Juniac. "This is about more than restoring confidence in how
aircraft are certified. When issues arise, coordination among regulators and
with industry must improve. "People are confused as grounding decisions rolled out
in some markets while it was business as usual in others," he explained. De Juniac said he is certainly not advocating for "knee-jerk
reactions". He emphasised that governments and the aviation industry must
find a way to maintain public confidence in safety with fast and coordinated
responses. Last month Iata met with Boeing 737 Max 8 operators. Establishing
trust among regulators and improving coordination were identified as the two
priorities which will be discussed further at a follow-up summit for airlines,
manufacturers and regulators. * Fin24 is a guest of Iata at its AGM.