Aviation industry players were surprised to learn of South
African Airways CEO Vuyani Jarana's resignation. Jarana tendered his resignation to South African Airways
(SAA) board chairperson JB Magwaza in a letter dated May 29, 2019. The CEO
cited uncertainty about funding, and bureaucracy which delayed decision making
necessary to turnaround the ailing airline, as reasons for his resignation,
Fin24 reported. A few industry players attending the International Air
Transport Association's (Iata) annual general meeting (AGM) taking place in
Seoul, South Korea on Sunday reacted to Jarana's resignation. Jarana was all
set to attend the event, as he did last year, but less than a day before the
start of this year’s AGM, it turned out he was not attending anymore. "What, again? How many CEOs has SAA now had over the
past few years," one aviation expert, who prefers to remain anonymous,
reacted upon hearing the news. Chris Zweigenthal, CEO of the Airlines Association of
Southern Africa (AASA) was just as surprised to hear of Jarana’s resignation.
"I worked with him as CEO of SAA and a member of the AASA executive
committee and his vision has always been one of implementing a turnaround
strategy which would ultimately turn SAA into a sustainable profitable airline,"
Zweigenthal told Fin24 on the sidelines of the AGM. "The work he was doing was contributing to the overall
wellbeing and sustainability of the airline industry in the region." Zweigenthal emphasised the importance of having a healthy
aviation industry. "It does not help if our airlines go through tough
times. We are disappointed to hear of his (Jarana’s) resignation, but thank him
for what he has done for the industry," he added. Another industry expert, who wanted to remain anonymous,
told Fin24 that one of the hurdles for Jarana at SAA was most likely "interference"
by the stakeholder – in other words, government. "When a CEO is put in charge of an airline, he or she
must be allowed to be in charge. The 'owners' should exercise oversight, but
not exercise control over management. They should have a hands-off approach,"
the expert told Fin24. "You must give the person you appoint as CEO the
opportunity to execute on a strategy. Jarana’s strategy would have led to a
sustainable business case for SAA." In the expert's view not only does SAA’s high debt situation
need to be addressed, but there needs to be restructuring of the company to
ensure that "people with the right skills are placed in the right
positions" to fix the business model. The expert said it is important for SAA to put resources where
it would positively impact customers the most – something which Jarana was busy
doing. Jarana was also busy looking at optimising SAA’s routes, which in the
view of the expert was a good thing. "SAA was in the middle of this process when the sudden
announcement of Jarana’s resignation came. It takes time to see the success of
these changes, but at least Jarana started to pave the road to success," said
the expert. "Continuity is really something SAA needed and now it
has yet again been interrupted." * Fin24 is a guest of
Iata at its AGM.