Fast-food nutrient pills, 2-3 hour working days and adaptable, personalised rooms that transport guests anywhere from jungles to mountain ranges. Oh, and apparently a touch of intergalactic travel, too. Sound far-fetched? Not to Hilton [NYSE: HLT]. To celebrate its 100th anniversary, the hotel group has issued a list of trends it expects to see in the travel and hospitality industry by 2119. In a report it says is "supported by expert insight from the fields of sustainability, innovation, design, human relations and nutrition", it describes how it expects technology and climate change will impact the hotel industry in future. Here's a summary of trends predicted. Personalisation is king Real-time needs "Technology will allow every space, fitting and furnishing to continuously update to respond to an individual’s real-time needs – the lobby will conjure up anything from a tranquil spa to a buzzy bar, giving every guest the perfect, personal welcome," says the report. Microchips under the skin "From temperature and lighting, to entertainment and beyond, microchips under the skin will enable us to wirelessly control the setting around us based on what we need, whenever we need it." The human touch Contact needed "In a world filled with Artificial Intelligence, human contact and the personal touch will be more critical and sought after than ever," argues the report. "Technology will free up time for hotel staff to focus on what matters most: helping guests to connect with one another and building memorable moments." ‘Sustainable everything’ The role of responsibility "Only businesses that are inherently responsible will survive the next century," the report says. Baked in "Sustainability will be baked into everything about a hotel’s design - from weather-proofed domes, to buildings made from ocean-dredged plastic." Town hall "Hotels will act as the Town Hall of any community, managing local resources and contributing to the areas they serve with community-tended insect farms and vertical hydroponic crop gardens." Menu surprises Plankton protein? "Our diets will include more plant-based recipes and some surprising sources of protein - Beetle Bolognese, Plankton Pies and Seaweed Green Velvet Cake will be menu staples," says the report. 3-D printing Decadent 3D-printed dinners and room service will provide unrivalled plate personalisation, the report argues. Biometrics "Chefs will be provided with biometric data for each guest, automatically creating meals based on preferences and nutritional requirements." Futuristic fitness Digital detoxes Outswim a virtual sea turtle in the pool, or challenge yourself to climb the digital face of Mount Everest. "Your exercise routine will be as unique as you are. What’s more, exercise energy generated from workouts will be used to power the hotel, providing a zero-impact, circular system. Guests could even earn rewards based on reaching workout targets." Virtual trainers Guests could pick up where they left off with trackable workouts and holographic personal trainers, the report says. Tech-free luxury "Offline will be the new luxury as we seek to find moments of tech-free time," the report adds. All-new destinations New heights From remote mountaintop resorts to previously unexplored islands and even moon-walking excursions, the report argues travel will reach new heights – and hotels will have to keep up. Adaptability "Hotel structures will adapt, evolve and mirror their surroundings. On the moon, reflective surfaces will highlight mystical and magical interstellar displays. On earth, building exteriors will be intrinsically linked to local environments, reflecting the culture, heritage and traditions of its surrounding location and people, and making use of local invasive species to preserve the environment."