Traction: Get a grip on your business, by Gino Wickman There is no one way to raise the perfect child. There is no
one way to formulate a compelling strategy. There is no one way to solve your
marketing problem. And there is no one way to build a successful business. That said, resignation and deciding the course of action as
you go along, using your own initiative and perceptions rather than a
predetermined plan, is not a solution either. Neither is following your
intuition, or the latest fad that catches your attention. Business is just too
complicated for that. The approach that author Gino Wickman writes about is based
on having conducted over ten thousand sessions on business correction with
clients. During these engagements he saw that only about 5% of entrepreneurs
and business owners were satisfied with how their businesses were performing.
They were making enough money, growing, solving problems well, and were able to
have a life outside of their businesses. For any committed businessperson to achieve this 5% status does
not require that she have a single skill or set of skills; or he have a string
of lucky breaks; but that they think about their business through six key
components, Wickman explains. A guide through chaos Let me state upfront: I like structure and I favour
structured thinking. But only as a guide to getting a grip on chaos. As such, a
guide must be vague enough to allow for creative thinking, nuance and
difference, and not be presumed to be a prescription. Wickman’s model is such a guide and it is why I believe it
deserves the attention of anyone serious about improving their small to medium
size business. Wickman has a six-part model – six components you need to
get right to give you the best chance of sustainable success. Vision The first component is the "Visions Component".
This is the common understanding of where you are headed. As I have asserted
many times, a plan for where you are going and how you are going to get, there
is a waste of intellectual power and time. It is a statement of the patently
unattainable and untrue, because is it a description of a journey from a known
present to an unknowable future. That is logically impossible. Wickman’s Vision Component is only a vision – not the steps
you have to take. It is an aspiration, so all staff are pointed in the right
direction. "The sun" he writes, "provides the earth with
billions of kilowatts of energy, yet if you stand in it for an hour, the worst
you will get is a little sunburn. On the other hand, a few watts of energy focused
in one direction is all a laser beam needs to cut through diamonds." Having a common aspiration is uniting and positive, but it
must leave the manager’s consciousness and become a common understanding. Great people The second component is "Great People". Successful
leaders must surround themselves with great people – there simply is no other
way. A successful and sustainable business has the right people in the right
places. A person could well be the right person, but the manager’s task is to
see they are right for the team and the task. Remember: you don’t get what you
expect, you get what you tolerate. Tolerating the wrong people is obviously no
way to run a successful business. Data To avoid the vagueness and subjectivity that pervades the
performance of so many people in so many businesses, you must focus on the
third component – the Data. Having clear numbers to guide performance and
activity cuts through subjectivity. It also makes the management of people
somewhat easier and correction and direction clear. Everyone needs a number or
a few numbers. Calls are answered in three rings.  You meet no less than 10 clients and potential
clients a week: 5 new and 5 prospective. The numbers must be appropriate and their
purpose clear. This clarity of expectation leaves nowhere to hide and
assists you, as the manager, to have a clear sense of how your business is
performing. Issues This will inevitably lead you to the fourth key component – "Issues".
Issues arise constantly. They could be a limitation on sales because you have a
supply constraint, a decline in productivity because of absenteeism, and so on.
Clearly identifying the issue is not enough. It has to be solved, not discussed
and left dangling. Clearly identifying issues in a formal way allows them to be
addressed through analysis, debate and a decision on the way to deal with it. Clearly
identifying the issues must be in writing so they don’t disappear from your
attention until they are solved. Having a list of issues also allows you to
deal with the important and urgent ones first. An issue register that is
addressed on a regular basis allows for systematic attention to problems. It
avoids the problem toleration that afflicts so many businesses. Systems The fifth key component is systemising your business. This
applies to the core components that make up your business. If you know what
needs to be done and how to do it, don’t allow that method of work to
deteriorate, formulate it as a complete system. Only through systemization can
a business be scalable. This systemisation is not limited to a product or service,
it is everywhere. On the management level, you deal with issues at your regular
bi-weekly meeting. You adopt the method that has evolved into a powerful tool
and repeat it every time you address an issue. You nurture and perfect the
system perpetually. Traction The inevitable result of the attention to the first five key
components is a better business. Better because it is more successful for you,
your people, your customers and your suppliers. And best because repetition and
constant improvement leads to the 6th key component: ‘Traction’.
Traction is achieved once doing the right things is ‘just the way we do it
around here’. Traction has a rhythm to it. It has regular, appropriate
meetings, to achieve specific ends, solve problems and monitor progress. These
meetings correctly managed are a habit of successful work, not an interruption. In Wickman’s experience the results are higher value of the
company and greater satisfaction for you, the business owner. If you are the business owner, this could well be your book
for the year. Readability         Light
--+-- Serious Insights              High
-+--- Low Practical              High +---- Low Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and
implementation and is the author of ‘Strategy that Works’ and ‘The Executive
Update.’ Views expressed are his own. 