A travel allowance is given to employees who travel for business purposes, and it is granted to finance a portion of an employee's transport costs. Many payroll professionals, however, struggle to come to grips with the South African Revenue Service's (SARS) travel allowance system. Employees are notoriously lax when it comes to record-keeping of their work travels, says Sumeshan Nair, executive committee member at the South African Payroll Association (SAPA). Travel allowance vs. reimbursed travel The point of departure for fixed travel allowances, reimbursements for expenses and company petrol cards by SARS is that 80% is subject to PAYE and should be included in the employee’s remuneration. This is based on the assumption that only 20% of the employee's use of the vehicle is for business purposes. The annual discretionary travel allowance is restricted to no more than R1 000 000 per individual per calendar year. In the case where an employee is given a company petrol card that they can use as needed, no amounts are paid out to employees on their payslips, but a taxable benefit will still arise. "The same 80/20 rule discussed above applies to employees who receive a petrol card as these types of expenses are unlikely to be 100% for business purposes," says Nair. Requirements to claim deductions Employees need to meet a number of requirements in order to claim travel allowance from SARS. Some of these requirements include a record of the total distance travelled for business and personal use and proof of expenses that are to be retained. Employees can deduct costs related to wear and tear of their vehicle, maintenance and repairs, vehicle license costs, insurance costs, and finance charges. "It is important to note that an employee cannot claim deductions against a travel allowance if they receive the right to use a company car. Travel between an employee’s home and place of work is also regarded as private travel, for which you cannot claim money back from SARS," says Nair. Nair notes it is not a payroll manager's responsibility to scrutinise an employee’s logbook or make sure that employees are maintaining their logbooks. "Employees need to keep their logbooks up to date and ensure their submissions to SARS are 100% factual. A template for the logbook is available on the SARS website. Keep this by your desk or in your car so that you can get into the habit of updating it as you travel for business. Without a logbook, you will not be able to claim any deductions," says Nair.