The offshore gas find in the Brulpadda prospect is already at its seismic acquisition and fluid sampling phase, according to Total general manager for exploration and production in South Africa, Adewale Fayemi. This means data is being captured and processed through field configurations and layout patterns to understand the yield of the prospects on the offshore site better. It also means that Total is getting samples of reservoir fluids to get a representation of the original reservoir fluids at the site.  Fayemi told Fin24 via email that Total and its partners had already carried out a 3D seismic acquisition campaign on the 11b/12b block in the first quarter of 2019, and that a further 2D/3D campaign was planned for the next acquisition window later in the year and early in 2020. AuStar Gold (ASX:AUL) imminent VIC gold production 08 Mar 2019 - AuStar Gold (ASX:AUL) CEO Tom de Vries talks about intersecting visible gold and imminent production at its historical Morning Star mine in the eastern Victorian goldfields. A better understanding "A lot of data, as well as core and fluid samples, have been obtained, which are currently being analysed and interpreted. The findings will provide a better understanding of the Brulpadda prospect," said Fayemi. Fayemi said the seismic acquisition would enable a better definition of the other prospects within the block as well as the next drilling targets. He said Total and its partners planned to drill up to four exploration and/or appraisal wells on this license, subject to approval of the authorities. "All activities will be towards preparing for the next drilling campaign, i.e. rig selection, procurement of materials for the next drilling campaign, secure rig service contracts," Fayemi said. Fayemi added that Total was receiving cooperation and collaboration from all relevant government agencies and departments. He said the petroleum giant planned to continue with these engagements as it followed the process. "Total, as operator of the Block, is in support of the ocean economy strategy as outlined in Operation Phakisa. Total is in close contact with the different government agencies and Departments and is working together to obtain a seamless and win-win solution for both Total and its partners and government," he said. He said the current timeline aimed to obtain 2D/3D surveying between 2019 and 2020 - subject to approval by partners and government. If approval were obtained, the team would drill up to four exploration and appraisal wells between 2020 and 2022. "The results of the future wells to be drilled would determine and define the extent of a future development plan," he said. Responding to concerns of safety and the environmental impact of the find, Fayemi said safety remained a core value of the company and no operation is undertaken if it cannot be done safely or responsibly.