In a week that saw South Africa lose its shine to Ghana as the continent’s top gold producer, a series of evidence from the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture detailed poor governance and malfeasance in state-owned entities. Here are the top 7 stories that dominated headlines: 1. Evidence delivered by Shiwa Mazibuko, the head of financial surveillance at the SA Reserve Bank, told the Zondo commission that a Gupta-linked company, Homix, in 2015 channeled R51.8m out of the country. Mazibuko testified that there was suddenly a “flurry of activity”  between March 28, 2014 and June 20, 2015.  2. The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa and the South African Cabin Crew Association called for the removal of Thandeka Mgoduso, Martin Kingston, Peter Tshisevhe and Geoff Rothschild from the SAA board - alleging that corruption festered under their watch.  3. Naspers' full-year earnings rose by as much as a third ahead of the technology group’s planned asset spinoff in Amsterdam, a move designed to reduce its dominance of Johannesburg’s stock exchange.  4. The number of South Africans enquiring about Australian visas has more than doubled in the past two years, Fin24 reported.  5. As focus on state-owned enterprises continued at the Zondo Commission, former SAA Group Treasurer Cynthia Stimpel testified that a colleague informed her that  "Number One" - or former president Jacob Zuma - wanted a company linked to Jayendra Naidoo, First South, to be considered for a R15bn consolidation loan sought by the state-owned airline in 2015.  6. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) presented argument in its application for leave to appeal judgment in a defamation case against former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel where it described the R500 000 damages awarded to Manuel in an earlier ruling as being “disproportionately high”.  7. Tsogo Sun Hotels made its JSE debut, with stocks traded on the opening day valuing the company at about R4.2bn The company has 110 hotels, with a combined total of almost 19 000 rooms, ranging from budget to deluxe offerings.