Telecommunications operators were given a boost on Thursday when President Cyril Ramaphosa indicated a long-awaited auction of new
broadband spectrum could take place within the next month. Vodacom [JSE:VOD] and MTN [JSE:MTN], the country's two biggest mobile-phone providers, have long been
demanding the opportunity to bid for new spectrum to extend high-speed internet
to new customers and increase data revenue. The constrained nature of the
market is forcing costs for subscribers higher, they say, a trend that’s been
condemned by regulators and protested by customers using the social media
hashtag #DataMustFall. Communications Minister Stella
Ndabeni-Abrahams will direct the Independent Communications Authority of South
Africa to start the process of spectrum licensing, Ramaphosa said in his
state-of-the-nation address in Cape Town. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. "This is a vital part of bringing
down the costs of data, which is essential both for economic development and
for unleashing opportunities for young people," he said. MTN shares traded 0.2% lower in
early trade in Johannesburg on Friday, while Vodacom fell by the same amount. "This process will include
measures to promote competition, transformation, inclusive growth of the sector
and universal access," he said, without giving details. In South Africa,
transformation is a term used to mean the increased participation of black
people in the economy. Vodacom, majority owned by
UK-based Vodafone Group Plc, and MTN had a combined 75 million customers in
South Africa at the end of 2018, or about three-quarters of the current market,
which includes those with more than one mobile-phone subscription. Cell C and Telkom, almost 40% owned by the government, make up the
top four. The spectrum auction
was last formally set for early 2017, but was postponed due to a dispute
between the government and Icasa about the process. Any upcoming auction should
be based on a requirement for providers to cut fees and lay on services
including free WiFi in public spaces, the Competition Commission, another
regulator, said in April.