Former South African Airways CEO, Sizakele
Mzimela, has told the commission of inquiry into state capture of the lead-up
to the resignation of nearly the entire board, the appointment of new chair
Vuyisile Kona, and her own resignation. Mzimela stepped
down late in 2012, following the walk-out of several board members. The relationship between the board,
management and department of public enterprises had become increasingly
strained, Mzimela told the commission. "I think this same board started to
feel more and more the frustrations between reporting to the previous ministry
and reporting to the then ministry at that point in time," she said. "There was a lot of attention paid to
matters [such
as the Mumbai route] which were of least priority and all of the other
things that required a lot more urgent attention were not getting proper
responses. "A lot of the board members started to
complain, they were quite suspicious… of [the department of public
enterprises'] motives in delaying some of these critical decisions that needed
to be put into place," she explained. Mzimela said she raised concerns with SAA
chairperson at the time, Sheryl Carolus, who agreed that "it was absolutely
wrong for some of these things to occur in the manner that they did". Their concerns were not being addressed and
the pushback on the ministry was getting harder, Mzimela told the commission. In September 2012, several SAA board
members decided to resign on the same day. Only three remained. Myeni's
questionable track record "When they shared with me their
intention to resign my response was, ‘I don’t know why I would be remaining
because I equally share the same frustrations that they were articulating in
relation to how things were being handled in the organisation’," Mzimela
told the commission. Mzimela initially chose to stay at the plea
of Carolus. Waiting to hear who the new chair of the
board would be, Mzimela said, "I received a call from Ms. [Dudu] Myeni to
say that she was going to appointed as the acting chair. We set up a meeting
urgently so that I could bring her up to speed on matters." 'Always
excused herself' Mzimela, however, said she was surprised by
the news, because Myeni "didn’t have a fantastic attendance record as a
director… I was quite surprised that the one who has the worst attendance
record is the one who then is going to be the chair of the board." Mzimela added: "I think overall she is
also one of those that sometimes did not turn out for the meeting. "If she did turn out for the meeting,
I don’t know of too many occasions where she stayed for the full time of the
board meeting. "She was always one of those who found
a way to excuse herself prior to the end of the board meeting." Had
to rush 'for Number One' Myeni, said Mzimela, said her main excuse
was that "she had to rush because Number One has called her to a meeting." Mzimela said she understood this to be
former president Jacob Zuma. However, Mzimela said that on the evening
she spoke to Myeni, "On the news, Mr Vuyisile Kona was then announced as
the new chair of the board, and not Ms Myeni." Frustrations
of management Once he was appointed, Mzimela said he
shared with him the frustrations of management. It seemed promising that Kona
wanted to work together to make things rights in this regard. However, within days of his appointment, he
asked for details of the aircraft procurement process, she told the inquiry. What disturbed Mzimela about this was that
Kona also requested the documents and the work that the fleet committee
undertook – not the recommendations. Mzimela said, "I’m comfortable if he’s
asking as the CEO to tell him what the recommendation was, what was it based on
and to share the type of information that would have been shared with the board
in order to reach the decision that was taken by board. "But it makes me uncomfortable that he
seems to want a little bit more information than what ordinarily a chairperson
would request." Various
large tenders According to Mzimela, the information Kona
sought regarded various large tenders, including a tender pertaining to the
purchase of large aircrafts. At this point, Mzimela decided to resign. She
did not only hand in a resignation letter but also shared her concerns in a
meeting, she said. Before she resigned, Mzimela was required
to serve a 30 days’ notice period. She asked Kona whether he could lessen this
as she would be comfortable leaving earlier. While she got no response, a meeting with
one of the three board members who did not resign seemed to reveal that it was
common knowledge that Mzimela was resigning with immediate effect. "She actually [showed] me a
round-robin resolution which had been sent to her… to appoint Mr Kona as the
executive chair which they want to remaining board members to approve and the
motivation to appoint him as executive chair was because I have resigned with
immediate effect according to the resolution," said Mzimela. Mzimela said that while this position did
not exist before, it would allow him to manage the executive functions of SAA
and to "run the organisation in an executive capacity". This made her want to exit with immediate
effect, Mzimela said.