Google has warned the 
Trump administration that it risks compromising US national security 
if it goes ahead with export restrictions on Huawei, and has asked to be
 exempted from any ban, the 
Financial Times reported, citing three people briefed on the 
conversations. Senior officials at the US-based tech giant have warned it wouldn’t
 be able to update its Android operating system on Huawei’s smartphones,
 prompting the Chinese company to develop its own version of the 
software, the FT says. A Huawei-modified version of Android, Google 
argued, could then be more vulnerable to hacking risks. The Trump Administration 
blacklisted the Chinese technology giant in a policy move that will 
prevent it from buying semiconductors, software and other components 
from American suppliers. The US government has warned that Huawei 
presents a security risk because the equipment it supplies to telecom 
carriers around the world could be compromised to aid espionage and 
surveillance by Beijing. The Commerce Department decision to restrict Huawei and 67 affiliates
 from purchasing American supplies jeopardises the company’s networking 
and smartphone operations. Under the order, US suppliers are able to 
appeal for special approval to continue selling to Huawei. This week, chairperson Liang Hua told 
a small group of American reporters visiting Huawei’s China operations 
that Google is working with the Commerce Department to find a solution. 
He said it would benefit consumers if Google and US government can 
work out a solution. “In the short term there is some impact on our business,” he said. 
‘In the long term, we will have to develop our own operating system and 
ecosystem.” He said that Huawei has not negotiated directly with the US
government and is waiting to see how the Google talks evolve. Huawei has
 said that if it has to develop an alternative operating system it could
 do so “very quickly.” Such a scenario presents several risks for Google. If Huawei develops
 its own version of Android, the search giant won’t control it so can’t 
manage security upgrades or reap the consumer data that makes its 
services useful and fuels advertising revenue.