Stadio Holdings, the JSE listed investment holding company with its focus on investments on higher education institutions, is ready to implement its expansion plan. This includes the construction of its first comprehensive campus in Durbanville near Cape Town.  Stadio is also about to submit its application to accredit and register Stadio Multiversity as an Institute for private higher education, a process which should be completed by June next year. Once done, Stadio Multiversity will accommodate all the courses which are currently offered through the different Stadio brands. The company is currently engaging with the Department of Higher Education & Training (DHET) and the Council on Higher Education (CHE) in order to find the best way to establish the multiversity. Stadio was unbundled from the schools group Curro Holdings in October 2017 to create two focussed leadership teams and listed on the JSE. Speaking at Stadio’s second annual general meeting, CEO Dr Chris van der Merwe said that preparations for this expansion drive includes the implementation of Unit 4, a single view IT platform which is used by some of the world’s top universities. The local tertiary market provides Stadio with sufficient opportunities for expansion with the number of students at institutes of higher learning having doubled from 557 000 in 2000 to about 1.2 million in 2016. Of this 1.2 million, only 167 408 students enrolled at private tertiary institutions. Private enrolments as a percentage of the total students in higher education in South Africa amounts to only 15% against a global average of about 35%. Stadio Multiversity will aim to initially accommodate 56 000 students by 2026 and even strive towards 100 000 students over time. Since the listing of Stadio in 2017 and up to 2019 the focus was mainly on positioning the company by acquiring quality brands and implementing a ?tting organisational structure. For the 2020 to 2021 period the company will start with greenfield developments in order to establish comprehensive campuses. In the Western Cape Stadio is on track to go on site in 2019/2020 to develop their first comprehensive campus, subject to building regulation processes, which will offer courses in various faculties. The company also identi?ed a piece of land for a comprehensive campus in Gauteng for 3 000 to 5 000 students and the board is currently considering this opportunity.