There are times when it feels as though we South
Africans are mercilessly caught up in a maelstrom of repeated political
promises that will never be fulfilled: Lies, arrogance and impunity by
untouchable political criminals. They remain victorious, laughing in our faces
after every election, untouchable as they manage to hoodwink sufficient numbers
into voting for them yet again, with the belief that any alternative would lead
to an apartheid-like hell all over again. Twenty-five years later, it is quite
depressing. We keep falling for it, and they know there will
always be enough of us that are too lazy, uninterested or incapable of
connecting the dots, who will fall for the same lies over and over again. Lies
told through fancy dances at stadia ahead of elections, colourful party regalia
food parcels, drinks, t-shirts, caps, music, dance, walkabouts in local areas
by politicians pretending to care; endless stories of claimed heroic battles
against apartheid. Names of past heroes and heroines – known and unknown,
remembered and forgotten – are evoked, peppered with more colourful anecdotal
accounts of what they said, did, and hoped for, or more of what they would have
expected of us today. People are reminded of the debt of gratitude they have vis-à-vis
these dead heroes and heroines, or their memories (whatever the difference) and
that is enough to get them to fall for the blackmail. It always works. The period leading to the 2019 elections was no
different; neither were the pre-electoral promises. Cyril Ramaphosa was to be
our only hope – that of the party he leads and, by extension, of our country; we
were told ad nauseam. Voting for him would give him the strength he needed to
sort out the mess in his party – the mess that affects us all and makes it hard
for us to focus our energy on a concerted post state capture economy rebuild – in
order to do what is right for South Africa. Some ethically and legally discredited people have been
shown the door, probably because they dreaded the prospects of moving from the
front benches to the back benches in Parliament. Either way, it is good they
will no longer be in our faces on a daily basis, reminding us of our stupidity
and weakness. Promises, promises But it is not enough that they're simply no longer
there; it will not be enough until they are processed by the country's criminal
justice system – a system some of them helped to waken – even if they have to
be called back from retirement to come clean on the roles they played to
enable, shield, and benefit from state capture and other forms of wrongdoing. It
is thanks to their conduct that our country's once sterling reputation has been
trampled upon. Some wrongdoers have stubbornly remained in the
system, however, as if to dare us to remove them even when they know our hands
are tied. And we're being told again to be patient, as they too will go,
eventually, despite several of them having been rewarded with more ministerial
positions; rewards that only serve to strengthen their belief that they have
convinced us to forget the roles they played during the state capture economy. They
prance about and make lofty political declarations yet again with their noses
in the air, protected and fed at our expense. And there is nothing we can do
about it, except wait for the ostensibly newly empowered NPA to begin showing
its new set of prosecutorial teeth; teeth that we have so far only read about
in the media. The longer the NPA remains quiet, the harder it
becomes for the cynics in some of us to prevent ourselves from suspecting the
authenticity of its independence. Who determines the timing of its actions
yet-to-be-seen? What else should explain its absence of action even against the
most high-level political criminals in our mist, including the senior officials
who have been forced to leave SAA, Transnet, SARS, Eskom, Denel, SABC, and
other public institutions following the exposure of their well-documented acts
of criminality? We're urged to be patient because these are
intra-party matters that are beyond us, outsiders, even when they affect us. It's
like being told not to mind someone who constantly smokes in our presence even
when their smoking exposes us to health risks. Undermining Ramaphosa's authority So, South Africa must wait while these intra-party
issues that stubbornly keep rearing their heads are sorted out, we're told. But
recent indications are that the fight back by those who have a lot to fear is
far from over. Being elected officials who can only be removed at the next
elective conference, they will remain untouchable, playing the system to their
benefit. They do so by constantly undermining the authority of 'Ramaphosa
the state president' by playing him against 'Ramaphosa the party deployee'.
While the former must act on behalf of all South Africans, the latter is
constantly reminded of the party manifesto and decisions made by a handful of
party delegates that, if implemented, would send our economy into a tailspin
never seen in many years. It is as if the people who lost party elections in
December 2017 continue to insist that their programme be implemented, despite
it being out of sync with the realities of today, or the 'New Dawn' principles that
were sold to us – not to mention the work South Africa must do to arrest the
rot and recover from the institutional and reputational damage of the past ten years. South Africans are tired. Their morale has been
bludgeoned repeatedly by developments in the governing ANC. It is time
Ramaphosa showed them that he can put his foot down, as the boss he is, and remind
his detractors in the ANC that there is work to be done out there. If the
internal party clean-up doesn't happen and discipline is not restored, we shall
find that we've crossed a line beyond which recovery will remain a chimera. * Solly
Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate
communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are
his own.