Many South African tax residents render services abroad for
a period of time during their lives. At present, the Income Tax Act exempts
income received by a South African tax resident, during any year of assessment,
if: There is presently no requirement that tax is payable in
another country for this exemption to apply. It is therefore possible that, in
certain circumstances, no tax is paid is any jurisdiction, in relation to
periods worked outside SA. National Treasury is of the view that this exemption is
overly generous, particularly in instances where an individual has worked in a
foreign jurisdiction with a low or zero personal income tax rate (i.e.
so-called tax havens). As such, National Treasury has confirmed that, with effect
from March 1, 2020, only the first R1m of foreign service employment income
will be exempt from tax. Income received over and above the R1m threshold will
be subject to tax, in SA, at marginal rates. Practical matters South African tax residents who are currently able to enjoy
the benefit of paying little or no tax on their foreign employment income, will
soon have to part with their cash to foot the additional tax bill. In instances
where double taxation occurs (i.e. the same income being taxed twice in both
the home country and a foreign jurisdiction) affected individuals may seek
relief in one of two ways: The analysis of a DTA is fairly complex and generally
requires the assistance of a tax professional. In addition, DTA relief can only
be claimed through the submission of an individual’s ITR12 income tax return to
SARS. Where there is no DTA between SA and a foreign jurisdiction, foreign tax
credits may be claimed in order to prevent double taxation. Foreign tax credits, like DTA relief, may only be claimed on
the ITR12 tax return. Prior to the submission of the return, the individual is
still obligated to pay all taxes due in both affected jurisdictions. It
therefore follows that cash flow problems may occur. Furthermore, individuals claiming foreign tax
credits must provide acceptable proof of foreign taxes paid to SARS. Such proof
may be challenging to obtain and differing tax years (relating to different tax
jurisdictions) adds another level of complexity to the calculation of foreign
tax credits. National Treasury, in collaboration with SARS, are working
towards addressing these practical issues before the change becomes effective. Lameez Arendse is a Tax
Compliance Consultant at RSM South Africa,
which has SA offices in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban.