A top business body,
the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce, said on Tuesday industry was
ready for the new bank notes Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube says will be introduced
soon to replace bond notes - although a top economist argues that the struggling
southern African country is not yet ready for a substantive currency of its
own. Zimbabwe has been
battling a financial sector crisis that has occasioned pricing distortions and
bottlenecks for companies and consumers alike. The situation, say some
economists, has been exacerbated by the government’s ban on usage of
foreign currencies for transactions. This has seen the
government enforce usage of the Zimbabwe dollar in the form of bond notes and
coins, electronic and mobile money for all formal transactions. In reality, however, foreign currencies such as the rand, US dollar and Botswana pula are
still changing hands in the settlement of transactions. With Bloomberg
reporting on Tuesday that Zimbabwe’s treasury is set to introduce new Zimbabwe
dollar notes to replace the bond notes, business bodies have said they are
ready for the new notes as commerce companies are already trading in local
currency after introduction of the Zim dollar on June 24 this year. 'We are ready' "Yes, we are ready for
the new currency – we are supportive of government initiatives on monetary
issues. Our members are already trading in Zim dollar (bond notes and electronic
currency)," Christopher Mugaga, chief executive officer of the ZNCC, said by
phone from Harare, the capital. According to
Bloomberg, quoting Ncube, Zimbabwe’s return to a fully functional local unit
that has potential to be traded beyond the country’s borders will be
underpinned by yet to be disclosed foreign exchange reserves, gold reserves and
loans. However, economist
Masimba Manyanya is skeptical of this, saying in another August 20 interview
that although Zimbabwe will ultimately require its own currency, the country is
not yet ready for a substantive Zimdollar unit. According to data on various
Zimbabwean banks’ websites, the Zimbabwean local currency is currently trading
at around 1:10 against the Zimdollar. “The Zimbabwean
economy needs its own currency like elsewhere in the world. However, the issue
with Zimbabwe is that the economy is not yet ready for a currency of its own,
mainly because we do not have sufficient production locally,” Manyanya said. The problem for the
Finance Minister right now is how to ascertain and store value in the economy,
added Manyanya, highlighting that a well-functioning industry would help
stabilise introduction of a local currency. “I suggest that
Mthuli find ways to create and boost industry and production before moving to
introduce a local currency. If you do not have the right frameworks in place,
you may end up having a situation where you just have a valueless currency,” he
said. Zimbabwe abandoned
its Zimbabwe dollar currency in 2009 and introduced a multiple currency regime. This
was after record hyper-inflation ravaged the economy, leaving shop shelves
empty and the economy struggling for stability. Zimbabweans on social
media have been ridiculing the introduction of the new Zim dollar notes, with
twitter users saying the government will "bankrupt" the new unit.