Government
and the business sector must work together to prevent the creation of a welfare
state in South Africa, Cape Town mayor Dan Plato said on Wednesday. "We
are on the way to become a welfare state with the growing population depending
on the government to create opportunities," Plato said at the City Meets
Business event hosted by the Western Cape Business Opportunity Forum (Webcof). The
event aims to give the City of Cape Town and the business sector an opportunity
to engage on concerns and come up with innovative ideas to cooperate in
building the economy and creating jobs. Plato also voiced concern over
what he labelled "ongoing lawlessness and violence" in the Mother
City, which has led to the army being deployed in certain hot spots. Plato
said crime was impacting tourism and damaging SA's brand. 'Gangster culture' "The
presence of the army is not sustainable. Tourists see these images of violence
and crime and it hurts the image of SA immensely," he said. "Gangster
culture" had its own economy, which was damaging, he added. "We
need to find solutions to deal with the gangster culture. It is an economy of
its own and we need to see how best to break through that culture." Huge potential On
a positive note, Plato said Cape Town was already regarded as a leading digital
city in Africa, offering innovation with the necessary infrastructure. The
sector has the potential to create the environment needed to compete in the
modern world, Plato argued. He said Cape Town has the lowest
unemployment rate in SA, yet it is still too high. "We have to create the
environment in which job creation can take place. The City and province cannot
do it alone," said Plato. "Government needs the
private sector as partner on the journey to create jobs. We need more
entrepreneurs. Government will not be able to provide all the opportunities on
its own." In this regard the City opened
its Strand Street Concourse hub as a one-stop walk-in for entrepreneurs, aimed
at removing barriers. "Our focus on business must
also focus on resilience and using resources efficiently. We must become more
efficient," said Plato. Lastly, he addressed the
challenge of providing housing for Cape Town’s ever-increasing population. "The message to the
people out there must be that a single dwelling on a single plot is beginning
to be thing of the past. We have to go for multi-storey buildings to be able to
house many more people on a single plot," said Plato.