Faster, Smarter, Louder:
Master Attention in a Noisy Digital Market, by Aaron Agius and Gián
Clancey Whether you are a
mature company, a start-up or an independent service provider, if you are not
using digital marketing (or not getting results,) you need to read this book. It describes a six-part
journey through which you need to take your potential customer or client. The
end-point is a sale - followed by more sales. The logic is clearly explained and
the book is full of insights and good advice. The process starts
with building your brand. The foundation stones of any successful brand are
credibility and validation. However, that is only part of what will make a digital
brand attractive and engaging enough to build a loyal traffic base. There are
essentially three types of media open to you: paid, owned and earned. Paid media includes
TV ads and billboards, Google Ads, Facebook ads and so on. It carries no authority
or impartiality; all you need to do is pay the fee. What paid media is very
good at, is getting your brand in front of your prospects. Owned, Earned, Paid Owned media is your
website and your social platforms. Owned media benefits from the fact that you
can make the rules. The challenge is that it is up to you to find and create
your audience. Earned media has a
credibility not found in the other types. The authors illustrate this point
with a tale of two different talk shows running in two different studios,
discussing the same subject. One speaker is introduced as Graham White and the
other as Doctor Graham White. No prize for guessing which person the audiences
are more inclined to believe. "All other
information being equal," the authors explain, "we look for secondary
indicators to decide whether someone or something is credible." This indicator
allows us to make micro-judgments that save us hours of time each day. Once our name begins
to mean something, people begin making inquiries about our business, and presenting
themselves as leads rather than bouncing away from the site. Now you have built
a reputation as a leader in your industry. Marketers rely on a
combination of three types of media, but the medium isn’t the issue. The issue
is how you use them. Whether you use owned, paid, or earned media, you will
still need to remember that every indicator matters: how you look, reply,
present, write, and more. The long game Unlike sales which is
a short-term game, branding is a long-term one, so you cannot fake it. The
branding journey takes time even if you make all the right moves. You must be
credible, but you also have to be visible. Allied to this is
the imperative to protect your capital – your brand. Successful people and even
more so those starting their brand-building, cannot afford to be associated
with the wrong people, used in the wrong way, be seen in the wrong way, or have
the wrong things said about them. Every positive judgment someone makes about
you is a micro-commitment to your brand and to your credibility. (Revisit your CV,
your business cards, your proposals, and pitch documents. How do they look? Are
they professionally designed? Do they look like someone put thought and care
into creating them?) You can, of course,
get fixated on your brand and not expend enough energy on bringing in revenue. The
remaining five parts of this book address the route that will lead to money
making. The second part focuses
on increasing traffic to your online platforms through a variety of proven
practices. To attract people, you need content that is compelling and valuable
beyond what others are offering. In the digital world competition is
extraordinarily keen. Since your goal is
to get your leads to buy your product or service, you want to get good at
converting and closing, but you have to lay the groundwork first. Pain points It starts with
finding the "pain points". Until you have identified the pain points
and can explain in detail the problem, the impact it carries, and the feelings
associated with it, you shouldn’t be pitching solutions. That you can start
doing when you can explain the pain someone is experiencing better than they
can. Then you will be recognized as an authority in that particular field. A SalesForce report
states that it takes six to eight touchpoints before a prospect becomes a
client. The touchpoints are not six to eight solicitations of business, but
rather educating and entertaining with your content. "Rather than
making a sales play," the authors explain, you should be asking, "How
can we be of benefit to you? How can we solve your problems? How can our
solution, service, or product provide value to your life?" At this stage your
aim is only to have the prospects feel comfortable with knowing you. This is how
successful multi-touchpoint engagement works. If you genuinely want your
business to help others and they feel that, you are closer to a sale. Many businesspeople
believe that asking this sort of question is demeaning. The authors have
concluded something quite different: you can’t solve someone’s problem or
otherwise help them if you don’t ask the questions. You are in business
to close sales, not hoping for them. It is in your best interest to do
everything you can to increase your probability of success. And often the
process is not all online. Live interactions, person-to-person moments, are
amazing for creating future opportunities. Email is still one
of your business’s most valuable owned assets and can be used very effectively
to move prospects closer to becoming clients or customers. Firstly, prospects
must ‘opt in’ which is a clear statement of interest in what you are offering. "In every chapter,
we’ve stressed the importance of authenticity and adding value to every single
interaction with your community." One has only earned the right to offer
solutions after we put the time, money, energy, and effort into building
credibility for our brands. This book is not
for people who want a quick fix to building a brand and a steady stream of sales.
There’s an old saying that the best time to invest was a hundred years ago, but
the second-best time is today. The same is true
for your digital marketing. Readability         Light --+- Serious Insights              High
+---- Low Practical              High +---- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and
implementation and is the author of ‘Strategy that Works’ and ‘The Executive
Update.’ Views expressed are his own.