The National Treasury’s growth plan to boost employment by
one million and move the needle on growth by two to three percent says spectrum
should be released by auction with only a small set-aside for government. It also recommends that renewable forms of energy make up a
far bigger part of energy planning and says that if Eskom sold off its
coal-fired power stations, it could clear debt. The Eskom restructuring document is being finalised for
release over the next week; Icasa released a spectrum auction plan in July and
this one forms part of that compendium. If anything, the hook for the release may be next week’s
World Economic Forum on Africa meeting in Cape Town, where SA wants to put on a
good show for the global multinationals and rest of Africa’s leaders, who will
gather in the Mother City. Another reason is that Ramaphosa will soon mark 100 days in
office, and he is preparing a report to the nation. Spectrum changes The spectrum auction which will free up broadband (and bring
down the costs of data) and boost growth differs from a policy paper released
by the regulator Icasa (Independent Communications Authority of South Africa),
which provides for a much bigger state-owned network. "Government should release spectrum through an auction
with a small set-aside for a government-controlled network, and competition
should be allowed in Telkom’s infrastructure that connects the local exchange
to residential homes and businesses," says Treasury’s growth paper,
released on Tuesday evening. Telkom and government have long resisted the
liberalisation of the last loop of the network, as it is the most valuable. Electricity supply "In energy planning, the base case of the Integrated
Resource Plan (IRP) should be unconstrained so that all policy options can be
compared relative to the least cost option," it adds. "An independent transmission company, to be created
from the unbundling of Eskom, should buy electricity transparently from
independent power producers." Trade unions at Eskom are opposed to any private sector
participation or outright privatisation of any part of the electricity value
chain. Icasa independence In addition, Treasury has recommended that Icasa be given
more independence. There have been problems where the regulator’s funding has
been withheld when the Department of Communications did not approve of its
strategy. "The Independent Communications Authority of South
Africa’s (Icasa's) proposed economic regulation component should be independent
of line departments and directly funded from industry levies, as per
international best practice. The state should leverage private-sector expertise
in the broadband roll-out, rather than relying exclusively on state-owned
companies (SOCs)." Monopolies and
competition While the growth paper (it’s not a policy or a Cabinet
statement) is more business-friendly than successive ANC run governments have
been, it is also tough on monopoly practices. For example, the paper recommends
that exclusive leases where retailers win exclusive leases in malls be ended. "Addressing exclusive leases is critical to creating
more competition among supermarkets," says the Treasury. And it says that the SA Reserve Bank should make switching
between banks easier for consumers. "Switching costs could be reduced by instituting a
regulated switching process with mandatory timelines in banking and
telecommunications. The South African Reserve Bank should exempt consumers from
interest, penalty fees, and other charges incurred due to delays in switching
bank accounts," says the paper. So what's the plan,
really? The Treasury paper is the outcome of symposiums of leading
local and global economists brought together by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni. It
is a remarkably honest document, but it is also odd in that it sounds as if Treasury
is not part of the government. "South Africa’s current economic trajectory is
unsustainable: economic growth has stagnated, unemployment is rising, and
inequality remains high. The government should urgently implement a series of
reforms that can boost South Africa’s growth in the short term, while also
creating the conditions for higher long-term sustainable growth," it says. "Delivering a capable state supported by a new compact
between the government, private sector and other social partners," is
envisaged as the delivery method of the plan. "Network industries such as energy, transport, and
telecommunications provide essential services that underpin the growth,
productivity, and competitiveness of an economy. South African network
industries face some challenges including the absence of efficient economic
regulation, old and poorly maintained infrastructure, a lack of access to
quality services, and poorly managed state-owned companies," adds the
document, which also says that Transnet should be restructured so that it is
easier to track the effectiveness of transport subsidies and incentives to
boost exports. "A 10 per cent increase in fixed broadband penetration
leads to a 1.35 per cent increase in GDP growth in developing countries and a
1.19 per cent increase in developed economies A one-day reduction in inland
transport times in Sub-Saharan Africa can lead to a 7 per cent increase in
exports," the Treasury’s paper finds, citing various research papers. In addition to the focus on network industries, the paper
makes recommendations on how to tweak industrialisation plans which it agrees
is a key economic stimulus. "Rationalising the Industrial Policy Action Plan (IPAP)
to improve its efficacy: the latest iteration of IPAP focuses on thirteen
sectoral areas with numerous interventions under each (in addition, there are
eight transversal focus areas)." The paper recommends streamlining the
number of sectoral areas to fewer. It also says that tourism is a growth driver and that
tourism support agencies (like SA Tourism) need bigger and better budgets. The third focus area of the paper is on the need to grow the
small and medium-sized sector of the economy, which has the greatest potential
for both growth and employment, but it is being choked in red tape. "While large businesses have the resources to navigate
their way in a variety of circumstances, the combination of impediments such as
a high regulatory burden, inflexible labour markets, and high levels of
concentration present significant obstacles for small business," says the
paper. While analysts say the paper is a throw-down to the
government by the Treasury, this may not be so. The paper is one of many
documents which undergird the reform initiative of President Cyril Ramaphosa
and which are now being released.