Seven majority black-owned small businesses have been
selected as winners of the CEO Circle Entrepreneurs Award for being deemed high-potential enterprises "with the ability to grow into a significant
company of R500m-plus in value". According to a statement from the SA SME Fund's CEO Circle,
a panel of CEOs chaired by Discovery's Adrian Gore, Investec's Fani Titi, Vodacom's
Shameel Joosub and Bongani Nqwababa of Sasol were so impressed by the seven
finalists that they opted to select them all as winners. Starting in August and continuing over the coming months,
each recipient will be provided with personalised support aimed at helping them
scale up into "significant companies of R500m-plus in value, as part of
SA’s private sector efforts to stimulate the economy and create jobs,"
according to the statement. Each will receive mentorship from one of the top CEOs
in the country, as well as a personalised plan to accelerate their growth, that
will include access to capital providers (debt and/or equity), introductions to
and mentoring by senior executives and decision makers in SA SME Fund
shareholder companies. Job creation, economic growth "Mid-sized companies are an important engine of
economic growth. We will leverage the enormous power of the SA SME Fund’s
shareholders (top 50 corporates) and fund managers to help grow these
businesses into significant players in the South African economy," said Gore, who is also chair of the SA SME Fund. The fund is a private sector-led initiative born out of the CEO
Initiative, a partnership between government and CEOs to stimulate the economy
and create jobs. The R1.5bn fund focuses on building entrepreneurs and small
and medium enterprises. Over 20% of the nominated companies qualified for
the second round of business reviews, resulting in 13 businesses
being selected for in-depth financial assessments, the SME Fund
said. The 13 companies presented to an initial selection panel on
18 July 2019. From this group, seven companies were selected to present
their businesses to the CEO Circle Selection Panel on August 7, which
culminated in the selection of the winners. The
award-winning companies were: BT Industrial: Manufactures High Density Polyethylene
(HDPE) pipes and provides an array of complementary services to customers
including engineering, project management, quantity surveying, and maintenance
solutions. InnoVent: Has a dual offering: asset
rental and management (computer hardware) to corporates, and the
re-rental of refurbished computers to customers including large
corporates and SMEs. KELE Mining Solutions: Niche contract mining services
(load and haul and drilling) with a view to use data analytics to improve
productivity and efficiency in the industry. Sentio Capital Management: Boutique asset manager
focused on integrating AI and machine learning with qualitative bottom-up
research to build portfolios for institutional and retail clients. SignCraft Africa:  A one-stop shop that
manufactures, installs, delivers and maintains corporate signage. Operates
nationally, and has a presence in 14 African countries. Siyeza Fine Chem: Procures, supplies and distributes
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients and other raw materials to pharmaceutical,
nutraceutical and cosmetics manufacturers. TSK Interiors: Deliver high quality, multi-million
rand turnkey interior fitouts and related construction solutions through
strategic partnerships with skilled core suppliers.