The recent passing of 77-year-old veteran actor
Nomhle Nkonyeni saw prominent actor Zikhona Sodlaka take to the stage during
her memorial service at the Joburg Market Theatre. Sodlaka raised the role government seemingly
failed to play in ensuring gender and race transformation in the creative arts
economy. uMama Nomhle had also recently been the recipient of the Order of
Ikhamanga – an award granted by the president, in honour of her excellence in
the fields of arts and culture. Much of actor Sodlaka’s outcry points to
similar critiques both inside and outside the industry, lending to how the
pending Copyright Amendment Bill would worsen prospects of investment and
transformation in the creative arts industries. Foreign and local investment in the creative
arts industry (like many industries) will be driven by both fair and equitable
incentive structures as well as a conducive legal infrastructure to support the
growth of the industry. I have in previous essays lamented that the legal
framework proposed in the Copyright Amendment Bill, however, is particularly
regressive in its articulation. While the spirit of the Bill is pro socio-economic
development and sustainability, in its current form, it will likely fall short
of meeting its economic, transformation and inclusivity imperatives. The earliest incentive programme in the
industry was reported in 1956, where tax rebates were provided to encourage
local production (then mainly for white audiences). The Department of Trade
and Industry (DTI) had a few incentive
programmes in place which were designed to attract investment into the
industry. Two such programmes were the South African
Emerging Black Filmmakers Incentive and the SA Film and TV Production
Incentive. The former offered a reimbursable grant of up to 50% of the Qualifying
South African Production Expenditure (QSAPE) guidelines up to a maximum of R50m per qualifying project.
The latter included a foreign investment incentive component, which would
provide up to 30% of QSAPE amongst other conditional details in the incentive
structures. Under the incentive programmes, the DTI reports
that 99 productions were approved during the 2017/18 financial year with a
projected investment of almost R2.9bn. Many large foreign film and television
corporations, FDIs and NGOs have pleaded with the DTI to make their incentive
structures more accommodative for large scale film investment into the
industry. And a result, some of the largest film production corporations still
do not have South Africa on their investment radar. And while we have seen some growth in the
industry in terms of new participants, why are we not seeing a sizeable growth
and transformation? Recognising the employment value According to the National Film and Video
Foundation, 222 films were released in 2017, of which a meagre 23 originated
locally, and they
contributed R12.2 billion directly and indirectly to the GDP of the
country. The South African Cultural Observatory
estimated that in 2015 the cultural and creative industries employed roughly
6.72% of South Africa’s labour force, while Stats SA had reported the number
closer to 2.83% in 2014. The sector is reported to have an employment
multiplier of 4.9, which means that for every R1 m invested in the industry, approximately
five new jobs are created. This multiplier is behind to only Agriculture and
Community, Social and Personal Services sectors when compared to the 2015 TIPS
Estimation of Employment Multipliers. Attracting FDI Foreign investment in the creative industries
is paramount if the industry is to grow and compete globally. As mentioned
earlier, the film industry is dominated by foreign film with the local film
only demanding a market share of between 7% and 10%. Many of the local productions do not make
enough to be able to recoup as much as 50% of their production costs. This, of
course, suggests that the legislative infrastructure should ensure that for all
the foreign direct investment we attract into the creative industries, we ought
to ensure the right technological and skills transfer takes place to ensure the
domestic market becomes more competitive. In addition, National Treasury has a Section
12J Venture Capital Company incentive in the Income Tax Act which came into
effect in 2009, providing an incentive for companies to invest in the local businesses
and the local economy and qualify for up to 100% tax deduction. Global context on investing in the creative industries Globally, there are cities that are bustling
with economic activity on the back of real and effectual investment in the
creative industries. Cities like Amsterdam, Brisbane, Berlin,
Barcelona, Dublin, Helsinki, Manchester, Milan, Montreal, Tilburg and Toronto
have stamped themselves as global creative industry hubs and our policy makers
ought to tear a sleeve from those books in their endeavours to spur the
domestic creative industries. The creative industries have
increasingly been recognised as growth sectors and we cannot afford to ignore
how both the legislative infrastructure as well as the lack of transformation
in the industry are holding the country back from realising real economic
growth from the sector.