In a background briefing to Fin24, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said that, contrary to the narrative from leading South Africans, the economy does not warrant an IMF bailout. Neither has the government asked for a loan. IMF rep for SA Montfort Mlachila said, "As far as we are concerned, there is no need for SA to approach the IMF. We much prefer countries to resolve their own problems. I have no doubt SA has the ability to address its own problems on the growth front and the fiscal front." He said government had definitely not asked the IMF for a loan and the IMF did not think that the present economic situation in SA warranted a loan. The IMF did also not consider it to be a crisis. In a visit at the end of last year, IMF outgoing managing director Christine La Garde said the same thing. SA Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago recently told Bloomberg that he didn't think the economy needed an IMF bailout while more recently, former deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas said that SA wasn't far off from approaching the IMF. The IMF gives assistance to countries that are hit by balance of payments crisis and they implement adjustment programmes to achieve growth. In some cases, you may have IMF programmes that are there which are like insurance policies, without needing the money, but as a seal of approval to insure against crises, Fin24 was told. Rwanda, for example, used such a policy support instrument and some countries like Mexico and Poland had credit lines extended to them by the IMF but they did not use the money. In the past few weeks, billionaire Johann Rupert who is the CEO of Remgro, the former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas as well as others have raised the spectre of South Africa requiring a bailout because the economy is stagnant, debt levels have soared beyond 60% of GDP and a plan for Eskom is elusive. In October 2018, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni was the first to raise the risk of an IMF loan to support South Africa. This is a developing story. 