Digital transformation:
Survive and thrive in an era of mass extinction, by Thomas M. Siebel "Today
we are seeing a burst of evolutionary change – a mass extinction among
corporations and a mass speciation of new kinds of companies," writes
author Thomas Siebel. The extent of
this change, and what is required for organisations to survive, is the focus of
this book. Though I have mentioned this phenomenon in previous columns, it is
worth repeating: Half of the companies that were on the Fortune 500 list in
2000 are no longer on the list today. The cause of
these declines is the stage of societal evolution we are experiencing. Science
and technology have evolved spectacularly and have collided with our social and
economic systems. This has disrupted the equilibrium we have been experiencing
for a long time. This is a
process mankind has been going through since the discovery of fire, the
domestication of dogs, agriculture, gunpowder, recording time accurately,
transoceanic transportation, the Gutenberg Press, the steam engine, the
locomotive, urban electrification, the automobile, the airplane, the
transistor, television, the microprocessor, and the internet. "Each of
these innovations collided with stable society, and then a little hell broke
loose," Siebel notes. What this list shows is that these disruptions are
occurring more frequently and causing upheavals more rapidly. Telecommunications
provides a clear example. The telegraph revolutionised long-distance
communication in the 1830s and was disrupted 45 years later by the first
telephone. Forty years later came the first transcontinental telephone call
from New York to San Francisco, and 40 years after that came the first wireless
telecommunication with pagers. Massive disruption This was
massively disrupted by the first cell phones, the arrival of high-speed
wireless, and then in 2000, billions of smartphones. All in less than 20 years!
This is but one of many examples of the speeding up of disruption. Merely
following the trends of change is not enough: organisations need to reinvent
the way they interact with this changing world. This starts with the
recognition that the existing model has run its course, and the organisation
must evolve or disappear. This book
describes the essence of the current disruption – digital transformation. At its
core is the confluence of four profoundly disruptive technologies. These are cloud
computing, big data, artificial intelligence and the internet of things. The scope
of digital transformation and its implications are still evolving, and its
impacts are only in the process of being understood. It is critical
for companies of all sizes to address this digital transformation because
failing to do so, is to risk extinction. Caterpillar to butterfly The first
wave of digitalisation arrived through mainframes and minicomputers, mostly
used to perform calculations. Then came the PC which added flexibility, because
you could simply get on with work at your desk. The PC was a progression beyond
calculations to word processing, graphic design, workgroup email systems, and
more. It transformed days or months of human work into seconds via the keyboard. However,
computerising airline reservations and tickets, or providing banking
information and services, was little more than doing the usual easily and
effectively. The current digital
transformation "is a more caterpillar-to-butterfly process" and demands
revolutionary changes to key competitive corporate methods. The crux of
this is that computers that had followed instructions, are now able to learn.  They will diagnose diseases, drive cars,
anticipate disruptions in supply chains, take care of our elderly, and speak to
us. And the list goes on to things we haven’t even thought of yet. What we do
know is that this is the era in which we will master mental power. In many ways
digital transformation will improve human life. For example, in medicine, we
can expect very early disease detection and diagnosis, extremely precise
surgeries performed with the help of robots, at a dramatically reduced cost. In the
automotive industry, we can expect self-driving cars, reduced accidents and
casualties, fewer drunk drivers, lower insurance premiums, and decreased carbon
emissions. Here is an
extremely brief overview of the four key technologies that both drive and
enable digital transformation: cloud computing, big data, artificial
intelligence (AI), and the internet of things (IoT). Cloud
computing is a way of accessing shared pools of configurable hardware and
software resources such as computer networks, servers, data storage,
applications, and other services. It can operate with minimal management
effort, typically via the internet. This market
is estimated to reach a staggering $162bn by 2020, just a decade and a half
after its inception. Amazon Web Services alone will grow to $43bn in annual
revenue by 2022. It started as an internal service for Amazon’s computing
needs. Traditional IT data centres will be extinct within a decade. Over the last
dozen years or so, software technologies have emerged that are designed to use
scale-out architectures for parallel processing of ‘big data’. With the
cloud providing unlimited computer and storage capabilities, along with revolutions
in software design for processing of data at massive scale, there is no longer
the need for sampling data. Outliers or otherwise imperfect data are
appropriately weighted through the analysis of large data sets. Change in expertise There is no
longer the need for an expert’s opinion of an event’s cause: the AI algorithm can
learn the behaviour of complex systems directly from the data generated by
those systems. Rather than
requiring an experienced loan officer to specify the causes of loan defaults,
the system or machine can learn those causes and their relative importance more
accurately, based on analysing all available data from prior loan defaults. An experienced
physician is no longer required to predict the onset of diabetes in a patient. That
can be learned from data by the computer more quickly and with much greater
accuracy. AI is the
science and engineering of making intelligent machines and computer programs
capable of learning and problem solving in ways that normally require human
intelligence. AI is already
being applied to highly complex supply chain problems, such as inventory optimisation.
In the health care field, AI will predict the likelihood of having a heart
attack, based on medical records and other data inputs — age, gender,
occupation, geography, diet, exercise, ethnicity, family history, health
history of hundreds of thousands of patients who have suffered heart attacks,
and millions who have not. The fourth
technology driving digital transformation is IoT. Its real power comes from the
fact that computing is rapidly becoming ubiquitous and interconnected. Microprocessors
are steadily getting cheaper and more energy efficient, and networks faster. Today,
inexpensive AI supercomputers the size of a credit card are being used in
devices such as cars, drones, industrial machinery, and buildings. Essentially,
everything is becoming a computing device and AI capabilities are increasingly
being built into these devices. Soon, humans
will have tens or hundreds of ultra-low-power computer wearables and implants
continuously monitoring and regulating blood chemistry, blood pressure, pulse,
temperature, and other metabolic signals. Each of the
four technologies driving digital transformation present powerful new
capabilities and possibilities. Threats to
your company are coming from unexpected quarters with devastating effect. In January
2018, Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JP Morgan Chase announced a joint venture
into the health care industry. That day $30 billion of market capitalisation
was erased from the 10 largest U.S. health care companies, with some dropping
by as much as 8%. This example
may seem extreme, but it is just the beginning. If you are the CEO, you had
best become very familiar with digital issues and be the first, not the last,
to get with the wave. Digital
transformation is the next do-or-die imperative. This book is a good place to
start. Readability         Light
---+ Serious Insights              High
+---- Low Practical              High ----+ Low Ian
Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and implementation and is
the author of ‘Strategy that Works’ and ‘The Executive Update.’ Views
expressed are his own. 