Just before
Eid, my mom's wrist was red and swollen and it was sore. She's 89 years old,
with hardly a complaint, so we don't play around. I took her to the doctor who
referred to an orthopaedic specialist. He recommended we admit her to hospital
for seven days, two days ahead of Eid. "What?"
I asked him, incredulous. He hadn't even done a proper examination. He put the
fear of God into me by saying that was his recommendation and he would take no
responsibility if an infection occurred. I took the risk as he was headed out
of town for the Muslim religious holiday and would not even be able to treat
her for the admission he was recommending. Anyway, a
brace worked, as did arnica and some painkillers. Last
weekend, a similar thing occurred. This time, my mom had a slipped disc but
luckily not the lung clot or heart condition doctors had first expected. A long
hospital stay wasn't required, but she might still be in hospital if not for my
brother, a doctor, who insisted on her discharge by two specialists who did not
communicate with our family until phone calls were placed to them. They left
no messages with nursing staff to guide us and instead, they recommended
sedation for an old lady who didn't really need it because she was agitated at
being at the hospital. Some years
ago, I had a bee sting at a beach and my foot was swollen. I went to a casualty
section – it was Christmas and my doctor was away – as you don't want to play
with a sting. I found myself in hospital for four days after the doctor
basically put more fear of God into me about gangrene and elephantiasis. From a
bloody bee sting? It was a totally unnecessary waste of time and money and a
holiday. South
Africa's private medical system is a mafia in desperate need of a shake-up –
the health market inquiry by the Competition Commission, which will be
finalised by next month, exposes how this system works. Because
there is virtually no competition in the tightly held private hospital system,
a complex has developed where doctors who have rooms at hospitals are
incentivised to create demand by often making admissions that may not be
needed. Profits are stratospheric, as the inquiry's comparisons reveal. Patients
(or customers) are kept in the dark, with communication lines opaque, and the
system rendered largely intransigent through techno-medico speak. This is
because in such an uncompetitive market, and in a field like healthcare, where
risk needs to be mitigated, we are like sitting ducks. Industry mafia The impact
for us is that costs rise, while the system encourages and allows a system
where the customer (patient) is often left in the dark with regard to treatment
options and effective and clear diagnosis. In the
public narrative about the national health insurance initiative (NHI), the
industry mafia is all over it, seeding the idea that the solution to the
state-centric NHI is the status quo private sector. As much as
the NHI is a lulu, because it risks exactly the same state capture and cronyism
that have South Africa's energy, transport and infrastructure systems in a vice
grip, the private sector is often a similar story of capture. Neither is a
panacea for the public, which deserves good and cost-effective service that
makes them healthier.