In recent years, South African sports enthusiasts have been
introduced to a few new sports terms that you won’t necessarily find in
standard recognised dictionaries. Some of these include “chokers” and “BMT”
(big match temperament), which have made headlines on several occasions
throughout the year. Whether it’s the Proteas getting stuck in yet another big
game, or the South African rugby and soccer teams that struggle to make the
semi-finals in the Super Rugby and Afcon series respectively, one thing that
underperformance is usually blamed on is the fact that emotions got the better
of the contenders. What
is it that made it possible for a sprinter like Merlene Ottey to compete in her
seventh Olympic Games at the age of 44 in 2004? Obviously, talent and hard work
play a role, but that is not enough to guarantee you success as a sports
personality. Tiger Woods said: “My creative mind is my greatest weapon. It is a
kind of inner vision that enables me to see things that others might not.” It
is about believing that you are on the road to success during times when
others’ emotions are getting the better of them. It
doesn’t seem as if there is any real difference between winning on the sports field
and winning in the investment world. Look, I am no expert on sports psychology,
but most of the reading I have done on the subject has drawn my attention to
the fact that the same methods used to control your emotions on the sports
field can actually be applied to the management of your investment portfolio – especially
during turbulent times such as those we have been experiencing over the past
few years. But
what causes people to allow their emotions to get the better of them? Fear
of failure Our fear
of failure is driven by our intense desire to WIN, sometimes to such an extent
that it affects our ability to sleep. It came as no surprise to me that within
48 hours of Formula 1 Mercedes boss, Toto Wolff’s announcement that Valtteri
Bottas had to perform very well if he wants to remain part of the Mercedes team
next season, Bottas couldn’t even finish the race and only crossed the finish
line in eighth place a week later, while his team mate won the race in the same
car. This fear of failure caused Bottas to act too tentatively or defensively,
rather than to be free and in control. When we apply this principle to our
investments, it shows us that if you live in constant fear that an investment
will fail, you are likely to make mistakes in managing it. Social
acceptance Many
of you may wonder what on earth social acceptance has to do with investments.
Well, A LOT! Just before the Cricket World Cup this year, Dale Steyn labelled
the term “choker” as nonsense, while admitting that the term did, in fact,
apply to some players who found themselves in tough conditions. The fact
remains that if the public and media call you a “choker” enough times, that
pressure is likely to have some impact on your game, especially when it gets
tough. The important thing to learn from this, is not to listen too much to
what the critics are saying, especially if you have done your homework properly
right from the get-go. Rather ask your critic why they are not yet enjoying
their cleverly earned wealth in a hammock on some exotic island, if they know
so much better than you? Irrational
beliefs If
Ernie Els were to tell himself that he is going to miss the hole every time he
has to putt, chances are that he is likely to miss it. The same goes for your
investments. If you have done your homework prior to investing in your chosen
share or fund, you have to believe that it will pay off. If you keep believing
that you made a mistake, your emotions will eventually get the better of
you. Mistakes
are inevitable By
sticking to the above example, let’s suggest that Els ends up missing the hole
due to a small error on his part. Does that mean that the next time he finds
himself on the putting green, he should forfeit the match? Of course not. Another thing that investors and sportsmen and women have in common, is the
fact that they have all made many mistakes, but they should all learn from
those mistakes and use the information to better themselves in order to
ultimately become the best of the best. Perfectionism Many professional
sports personalities will admit that they are often their own worst enemy. If
things do not go according to plan, emotions can get the better of them very
quickly. But, realistically speaking, we know that no one is perfect. In the
same way that sports contenders can succumb to their own perfectionistic
expectations, investors too can suffer the same fate when market conditions are
not what they expected. But just as sports contenders have to find the balance
between confidence and the fact that they have to accept that things won’t
always go according to plan, investors have to compensate for the fact that in
the investment world, things often won’t go according to plan either. In the
investment world, diversification is your best defence and your best chance of
“winning”, as opposed to placing all your eggs in one basket and hoping for the
best. We know one thing for sure,
and that is that our markets are volatile and things may not turn out according
to your expectations over the short term. Very few sports stars become
successful overnight, and so too have very few investors become extremely
wealthy overnight. But if you have done your homework properly and you have
faith in your investment decisions, you should eventually reap the rewards of
your hard work (and patience). Schalk Louw is a portfolio manager at PSG Wealth.