Zimbabwe’s government has said it’s ready to settle
with global lenders, sell assets and make the difficult spending decisions
needed for financial recovery. But with opposition protests against plunging
living standards scheduled in cities nationwide, he’s in a race against time. In an exclusive interview with Bloomberg News on
Thursday, Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube dismissed rapidly accelerating
inflation as "wage compression" and warned the country will have to
endure four more months of economic pain. On Friday morning, police in the capital
violently dispersed demonstrators protesting over the hardship his austerity
measures have spawned. "The big macro-economic decisions should be
complete by year-end," Ncube, 55, said in an interview at his office in
central Harare. "In December, everything stops in terms of the big
decisions. Beyond that, we focus more on jobs, growth, productivity and
development." Almost a year into the job, Ncube, a
Cambridge-university trained economics professor, has reined in state spending
and boosted tax revenue. But his introduction of a new currency in June,
accompanied by a ban on the use of the dollar, has seen the rapid erosion of
spending power with the Zimbabwe dollar trading at almost 10 to the dollar. Its
predecessor, a quasi-currency known as bond notes, was officially said to be at
parity as recently as February. Extreme poverty Now many of the country’s 400 000 civil servants,
who form the bulk of the middle class, are earning less than the $1.90 a day, defined by the World Bank as the line below which people are living in extreme
poverty. Zimbabwe’s annual inflation, the release of which
has been suspended for six months, is officially 176% and shortages of fuel and
bread are widespread. The government’s inability to pay for adequate
electricity imports has crippled the economy with power outages of as long as
18 hours a day. The measures, which Ncube conceded were painful for citizens,
are necessary if the country is to regain a sound economic footing, he said. There’s a growing risk that the economic hardship
may trigger unrest similar to violence that took place two decades ago, said
Japhet Moyo, the head of the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions, the biggest
labour federation. "We will experience the 1999 scenario, which
had no co-ordinator and riots broke out spontaneously," Moyo said in an
interview. At least one person was injured when police charged
a group of protesters in Harare’s city centre, leaving a woman lying motionless
on the street before she was taken to hospital by Red Cross personnel. More
demonstrations are planned next week in major cities including Bulawayo, Mutare
and Gweru. While Ncube has won praise for imposing financial
discipline on a notoriously profligate government, his comments on inflation
strained the credulity of some analysts.Ncube said annual inflation data showed
that wages haven’t adjusted quickly enough to the new exchange rate, and not
that the country is heading for hyperinflation. 'Economic gobbledygook' "What people are feeling is really wage
compression," he said. "Prices adjusted instantly to the exchange
rate, but wages have been too slow to catch up with the adjustment. The issue
is about wage adjustment and I’m a big champion of wage adjustment." The finance minister is talking "economic
gobbledygook," said Steve H. Hanke, a professor of applied economics at
the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. "By my measure, Zimbabwe’s
inflation is the second highest in the world at 570%." Venezuela has the
world’s highest inflation. Ncube planned reforms include establishing a
nine-member Monetary Policy Committee that will reduce interest rates from 50%.
Within 12 to 18 months, the nation plans to sell domestic bonds with a duration
of as long as 30 years to fund infrastructure. In time, it will approach
international markets, he said. The reforms are aimed at restructuring the
country’s $9 billion of external loans . Under a debt-settlement plan, which
Ncube said he’s discussing with creditors, Zimbabwe would complete an
International Monetary Fund Staff-Monitored Program in January. It would then: Borrow the $1.9bn it owes the World Bank and the
African Development Bank from the Group of Seven industrialized
nationsImmediately win $1bn in relief from the two lenders, which would be paid
back to the G7 creditors Expect so-called Paris Club creditors, to whom it
owes $3.8bn in bilateral debt, to take a "haircut. "IMF
Resident Representative Patrick Imam said conditions are not yet in place for
the fund to provide financial support for Zimbabwe. The IMF’s SMP is being used
to support economic and governance reforms in the country. "Zimbabwe needs to build a track record to
prove that it can implement reforms to tackle deep-rooted problems, as the
hurdle rate for a financially supported program is high," Imam said.Even
Ncube’s supporters say that if his measures work, there is a lot more hardship
in store for Zimbabweans. "This situation is something which can persist
for anything between three to five years of pain," said Lloyd Mlotshwa,
head of equities at IH Securities in Zimbabwe, who praised the finance minister
for raising fuel and power prices that were previously subsidized by the
government. "What can shorten this period is if there are funds poured
into plug the gap."