A long-awaited government policy
directive has raised more questions than answers for South Africa’s telecommunications
industry, and quashed hope for the quick release of spectrum – which existing
mobile network operators say would help them to improve their services and cut
data costs. Spectrum refers to the radio
frequencies used for communication over airwaves by radio, television and the
mobile telephone industry, as well as other wireless applications like Wi-Fi
and Bluetooth. It is both a sovereign asset and a limited resource, managed by
national regulatory authorities, which issue the licences needed for its use. However, policy paralysis and
mismanagement has blocked the allocation of new spectrum in SA for more than a
decade, forcing existing operators to spend more money on repurposing their
infrastructure to meet demand. The indecision has also prevented
local television broadcasters from keeping up with digital migration, a global
shift in technology that would have released spectrum, which broadcasters now
occupy, to mobile operators. Addressing the scarcity is crucial to
the economy, as wider, cheaper and more efficient network coverage would
stimulate innovation, create jobs and ease the cost of doing business in South
Africa – attracting more investment into the country. But analysts say that the
announcement by communications minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams on 26 July,
while welcome, points to further delays. The government has decided to allocate
much of the country’s unused high-demand spectrum to a Wholesale Open Access
Network (WOAN), which will be established through a consortium of companies
with diverse ownership. The intention is to boost competition
by opening the market to small- and medium-sized enterprises, favouring
black-owned businesses and including the participation of targeted groups
including women, young people, and persons with disabilities. The directive sets conditions for
existing operators wanting to purchase the remaining chunks of spectrum,
requiring them to deploy infrastructure in less profitable rural areas first.
It gives preferential access and additional support to the WOAN. Operators that secure their own
spectrum will have to buy 30% of their national capacity from the WOAN for at
least five years, and will be required to make their infrastructure available
to the entity on a wholesale basis as soon as it has been established. The Independent Communications Authority
of South Africa (Icasa) will award licences for the spectrum and the government
has asked it to reduce or waive licence fees for the WOAN, which would give the
entity an input cost advantage and allow it to charge lower prices. But no timelines have been set for
establishing the WOAN, for making it operational, or for auctioning what is
left of the spectrum to the existing operators. Shortly after the announcement,
Icasa issued an invitation for tenders to help the authority value high-demand
spectrum bands ahead of the allocation of licences. How much spectrum which will be
assigned to the WOAN and how much to the existing network operators is
also unclear, apart from the guidance given in a study last year by the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research, which concluded that to be viable the
new entity had to have 20% of the entire market. “What is absent from this directive
are prescriptions and mechanisms on how the spectrum will be awarded, and what
type of business model is going to be used for the WOAN consortium,” said Naila
Govan-Vassen, research manager at Research ICT Africa. “The biggest concern is the timeline
of WOAN, along with the lack of clarity over what proportion of
spectrum will be assigned to it and the amount of remaining spectrum
that may be assigned to other electronic communications network service
licensees.” “This whole
process will take long and further delay the release of spectrum. The longer
the delay the longer prices will stay high.” Mobile data prices in SA are higher
than in many other countries in Africa and elsewhere, with a recent
investigation by Cable, a UK mobile broadband comparison website, ranking the
country 143rd out of 230 worldwide. The Competition Commission has blamed
the absence of competition and lack of transparency by big operators like
Vodacom and MTN for high data costs, but also acknowledged that scarcity of
spectrum is a factor. Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub has said
that access to further spectrum would allow mobile networks to cut their data
prices in half, and has been scathing over what he describes as incompetence
among policymakers. SA has had 11 communications ministers
over the past 11 years. Neither Vodacom nor MTN have responded
to the policy directive, saying that they are reviewing the document and will
comment in due course. Analysts say they are effectively being nudged out of
the market and may find it difficult to get adequate returns on the capital
investment which they have already ploughed into their infrastructure. Louis Avenant, senior associate and strategy
manager at PwC, said that it could potentially take two years before the WOAN
becomes operational, although the spectrum earmarked for existing players could
be released within a few months. “On paper it's a really good thing. If
this WOAN can come into operation and has the kind of credentials that are
intended – driven mostly by SMMEs – and is able to offer the kind of universal
service which is required, clearly it would be a good thing for development in
SA,” he said. “But at this point it’s not clear how
that WOAN is going to operate – who is going to participate, who is going to
fund the infrastructure, what will be the relationship between the WOAN and the
current operators, what will happen to the current infrastructure? All of those
questions are left unanswered.” So far WOANs have a poor track record.
The Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA) – a trade body representing
the interests of the industry worldwide – warned two years ago that they are
not the best solution for providing better coverage and more affordable prices. Dobek Pater, director of business
development at ICT consultancy Africa Analysis, said that the structure of the
WOAN will be key to ensure that it does not become dysfunctional. “It can be a vehicle that delivers
what the government wants, that provides good-quality broadband service to
rural areas, but it needs to operate like a commercial entity. It needs to be
efficiently managed by one or two parties to make sure that it functions
properly.” Pater said that a spectrum auction to
existing operators was possible in a few months but would probably take place
in the first quarter of next year. The longest delay would be in the release of
the spectrum occupied by broadcasters, as they are not required to switch from
analogue to digital technology before the middle of next year. SA missed the International
Telecommunication Union’s digital migration deadline of June 2015 due to
disagreements among broadcasters, legal wrangling and power struggles within
government. It also missed a self-imposed deadline of June 2018, set by former
communications minister Faith Muthambi. The new policy directive also pushed
out the timeline for the use of fifth-generation wireless networking technology
(5G) in SA, which is being rolled out globally this year. It said that
consideration of 5G spectrum would be covered in a separate policy directive
sometime in 2020, after preparation of a report which would be presented to the
minister six months after the next World Radiocommunication Conference in late
November. The news will be a disappointment to
operators that have begun trial deployment of the high-speed technology in SA –
particularly for data-only network operator Rain, the only company to have
launched a 5G commercial network so far. In many ways the absence of 5G is a
pressing concern for SA — it is seen as crucial to the deployment of Internet
of Things technology, self-driving cars, and smart cities. But it will
provide the infrastructure to carry huge amounts of data and spur innovation in
new technologies, such as industrial automation and medical monitoring. “We
are always playing catchup with the rest of the world and it’s exactly because
of this kind of mindset,” Avenant said. “If current operators deem it viable to introduce
5G technology there’s no reason not to do that, because it’s going to create
new markets.” An economic report from the GSMA in
July predicted that releasing
5G capacity will spur economic growth globally and provide a $5.2bn boost to
gross domestic product in sub-Saharan Africa alone by 2034. Faster internet access matters — a
World Bank Study this year showed that its arrival in sub-Saharan Africa nearly
two decades ago increased the probability that an individual was employed by up
to 13%, with the impact for unskilled workers more positive than in wealthy
countries The mobile ecosystem in SA generated
7.6% of gross domestic product (GDP), or $28.5bn of value added to the economy in 2018, the
GSMA said. “Supported by the right policy
environment, this economic impact is expected to rise to $30bn by 2023, due to
the productivity benefits from increasing mobile Internet penetration,” it
said. Mariam Isa is a freelance journalist who came to SA in 2000 as chief financial correspondent for Reuters news agency after working in the Middle East, the UK and Sweden, covering topics ranging from war to oil, as well as politics and economics. She joined Business Day as economics editor in 2007 and left in 2014 to write on a wider range of subjects for several publications in SA and in the UK.