Hackers who breach security firewalls could potentially kill patients wearing remote-controlled pacemakers or insulin pump devices, according to Tanya Vogt, executive officer of the SA Medical Technology Industry Association. The main reason behind hacking of medical devices is usually the same as any cyber crime - identity theft and fraud, the conference heard. Speaking at the Hospital Association of SA's annual conference in Cape Town on Tuesday, Vogt said the country is behind the international risk curve when it comes to legislation around recall and adverse events linked to medical devices. This is despite SA having basic certification and guidelines on safety and performance for these devices. Credible manufacturers needed some kind of regulatory approval, but even this did not help much when it came to the ability of hackers to access real-time monitoring of connective devices, delegates were told. Black market sales Braam Oberholzer, head enterprise architect at Netcare and a pioneer in medical device software, said at the conference in Cape Town that last year already 15 million medical records globally were disclosed. Half way through this year, the number of disclosed records had already increased to 32 million. "The danger is from those wanting street cred in the hacker community or criminals wanting to make a living out of it," said Oberholzer. Medical data was relatively easy to hack in order to assemble an identity kit and forge documents which could fetch up to $20 000 on the black market, he said. Corporates, researchers must collaborate Greater collaboration between security research data scientists, data analysts and software companies would be needed to help bridge both the digital skills gap and improve security, Vogt added. A group of local medical device experts formed a working group some six years ago to categorise this type of hacking risk, improve the quality of product management and the clinical evaluation of medical technology products. The working group was also created to allow for risk-management, innovation and timely patient access to safe and effective medical devices, according to Vogt. She said earlier this month a cyber-security conference was held in Las Vegas. The world’s top-10 medical device manufacturers were invited. One hundred ethical hackers were then invited to "prod and poke" their devices as a means of improving safety. Oberholzer said the best way to curb the theft and disclosure of medical records was to use activity analysis software, adding that the main purpose of criminal hackers of healthcare technology was identity theft.