The ongoing legal, political and ideological
skirmishes taking place in South Africa are far from over, and while they
continue, they're casting all sorts of shadows over the heads of individuals
who have, for many years, been regarded as credible leaders. As a result, increasing numbers of hitherto
untouchable leaders are fast losing their lustre as they get dragged through
the mud in our statutory courts and in the ever-vociferous courts of public
opinion. Not to mention traditional media and the increasingly merciless,
invasive social media and other digital platforms. All of these are known for
issuing swift judgements on the basis only of news headlines cleverly crafted
to drive sales, gossip, or malicious and inadvertent misquotes. Leadership is an important element of any brand's
journey towards the realisation of its vision. This is irrespective of whether
the brand under discussion is a personal or product brand, service brand, a destination
brand, or other. Leadership sits at the apex of brand management, alongside
the Brand Vision and Values Charter which must determine the tone, the 'how',
and the 'with whom', of the journey the brand must travel; clearly separating
the acceptable from the unacceptable. Big brands taking the heat We have seen in recent times how many great brands have
suffered either irreparable or very hard-to-repair damage when leadership
fails. Brand South Africa has been one such casualty, under
President Cyril Ramaphosa's predecessor. The climb to regain respect for South
Africa in the rest of Africa and around the world, is proving to be a steep one
indeed for our country's current administration. This is unlikely to get better while those who should
be driving their combined energies towards a recovery plan are busy tearing one
another apart, fighting battles that many of us had hoped would stop on the
other side of the 2019 general elections. It will be interesting to watch person brands such
former finance minister Trevor Manuel, President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Public
Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan make it through the skirmishes in their
worlds. What is clear in Manuel's case is that even if round
one against the EFF has been won by him in our statutory courts, the bruising
battle against the red berets, plus the Old Mutual versus Peter Moyo legal
tussle, will likely not leave this member of the unofficial ANC royalty reputationally
unshaken. The same thing is happening to President Ramaphosa and
Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. We could even put Derek Hanekom in
the mix. Together with Manuel, one could say these men's pedigree as fighters
against past apartheid injustices has never been questioned. They have
therefore come a long way and survived many battles over the years to get to
where they are today. But in the glare of social media, they cannot get
involved in fights with the likes of the EFF without getting muddied, at the
very least in the eyes of their opponents' supporters. Similarly, Old Mutual may not say it publicly, but it
must be facing a conundrum following news that it paid legal fees for a
skirmish involving its board chair when said skirmish had nothing to do with
it. Its shareholders must ask the difficult questions and,
mindful of the need to remain squeaky clean in terms of corporate governance ahead
of its next audit, this listed company cannot afford to falter in the public
eye. If it does kick the can down the road, it will be interesting to hear the
auditors' opinion on the matter when they find that can outside their door. Reputational battles outside the courts In the era of social media, reputation battles are not
won in statutory courts alone. If the many voices and, often, uninformed or
biased social media 'opinionistas' do not like the statutory court victor, the
latter is unlikely to be allowed to walk in public again with their head held
high without being subjected to unsavoury whispers and having to endlessly explain
themselves. Everything that is being dragged into the public space
about the funding of the CR17 party leadership election campaign, and Ace
Magashule-led contradiction of Ramaphosa's well-meant pronouncements, casts more
aspersions on the president's name – and the hopes of those who believed this
president had the magic wand to make all our problems go away. In his position as CEO of South Africa Inc., Ramaphosa
cannot convince investors at home and around the world that South Africa is
truly open for business, clean business, if people in the party he leads
routinely contradict him and things get thrown into the public that might leave
the impression that he is no different from those in his party who remain
heavily implicated in criminal wrongdoing. We live in a world that paints us in the colours of
the last ten or twenty media articles that were published about us. To bury
them deep in the dark wells of Google is not easy and getting them removed
entirely from the internet can be a costly, if not impossible, battle. The more
protracted the skirmishes, the more more seedlings they spread all over the
place that are guaranteed to stand between the image they inform of us and good
things we aspire stand for; the things others expect us to stand for. Those who advise the leaders whose names are being
dragged through the mud have to be very careful how they help them navigate the
trenches, as any mistakes they make might only give birth to more seedlings
that will make reputational recovery impossible to realise. A leader with a damaged reputation will struggle to
get good, reputation-conscious people to invest in their causes. It's important
that we do all we can to keep the standards as high as possible; else South
Africa will continue to be "normalised" in the negative African
stereotypes that will hurt its developmental aspirations. *
Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic
corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views
expressed are his own.