As a credit bureau TransUnion has access to a big consumer data
universe. It holds a wealth of information on consumers — their payment
profiles (affording the bureau an understanding of how financially distressed
someone is), information on the ownership of assets such as vehicles and
properties, including how much is still outstanding on them, and more. TransUnion essentially has a bird’s-eye view of the financial standing
of the average South African consumer, making it uniquely placed to help with
the fight against corruption with the rollout of its Lifestyle Assessment – a
service that enables organisations to identify fraud and corruption indicators
linked to employees and suppliers. TransUnion runs this service on employees
and suppliers on behalf of organisations – sometimes not to find the rotten
apple, but to also help find apples that are at a greater risk of rotting — in
what they call risk segmentation. Finding the devil in the detail According to Keith Wardell, director of fraud and ID at TransUnion,
companies are becoming less inclined to leave the detection of fraud to chance
or tip-offs and are taking a proactive stance to combat the scourge of economic
crime. “Assets like cars and property are one of the most common things bought
when people are perpetrating fraud,” says Wardell. In some real-life cases
perpetrators will not go for the Ferraris or Maseratis but purchase five or six
cars and distribute them among family members, he says. With TransUnion’s service, an entire organisation, or high-risk business
area, can go through a lifestyle assessment that segments and highlights
individual issues such as inconsistencies in earnings and assets. During
recruitment, potential new hires can be pre-screened to uncover any potential
issues. TransUnion aims to, for example, identify
any potential collusion and conflicts of interest between employees and
suppliers. The conflict
of interest can also be split into direct, indirect and potential linkages
between employees and suppliers. Tapping into Home Affairs data has also helped in mapping out just how
far an economic crime network can extend, for example, establishing relations
between the recipients of the five or six cars and the perpetrator. When TransUnion ran a lifestyle assessment
for one public sector organisation, it uncovered three dead or ‘ghost’
employees who, although deceased, were drawing an income from the organisation. Some analysis extends as far as telecommunications — people swap or go
through different SIM cards frequently, however, “multiple SIM cards going in
and out of a device more than three times within five days gives rise to strong
suspicion that the person is a member of a syndicate,” explains Wardell. “In one public sector case, three employees were linked to 30 SIM cards
over a two-month period. On average that is ten SIM cards each.” The legality of lifestyle assessments and use of consumer data There is, of course, great concern when working with consumer or
employees’ data, one of which is consent for it to either be accessed and/or
used. Regulation 18(4)(b) of the National Consumer Credit Act permits credit
bureaus like TransUnion to make use of consumer credit information for fraud
detection and prevention purposes, of which the lifestyle assessment is a part. “Organisations actually end up spending two to ten times more on
investigations [after the fact] than the original amount lost to fraud
corruption.” Employees are increasingly committing economic crime, including fraud,
and the internal actor is actually the one you should be concerned with,
Wardell cautions. He says 64%
of all fraud is perpetrated by someone internally. Lifestyle assessments run from R600 per employee and take an average of
four weeks to conduct. This article originally appeared in the 29 August edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.