On 25 July, the highest-ever temperature was
recorded in Paris. The 42.6 °C measured comfortably beat the previous record of
40.4 °C of July 1947. The heatwave
hit much of the rest of Europe too. Highest-ever temperatures were recorded in
Germany, the Netherlands, UK and Norway during the last week of July. The extraordinary temperatures in Europe
should come as no surprise to those who have followed scientists’ predictions
about climate change. The rapid industrialisation in Western Europe and North
America since the mid-nineteenth century, and in most parts of the world since
the mid-twentieth century, has made humans the main culprits in a warming world
where temperatures are rising at an unprecedented rate. There are many consequences of a warmer
planet. Nasa’s website mentions, to name a few, warming oceans, shrinking ice
sheets, glacial retreats, sea level rise, ocean acidification and a greater
likelihood of extreme events. But rising temperatures are also likely to have
severe economic costs. The problem for economists has been to
quantify the size of these costs; if we could measure the costs of pollution accurately, it would allow
us to determine how much we would be willing to spend to prevent said
pollution. But measuring the costs of pollution, or any environmental
damage for that matter, is hard, because the effect is usually not limited to
one territory or even country. Economic historians, in particular, have
joined the debate, using historical environmental shocks to measure a variety
of consequences for standards of living. England was the first to industrialise
in the nineteenth century, with the new cities of Liverpool and Manchester filled
with air-polluting coal-fired power plants. In a new article in the Journal
of Economic History, three economic historians exploit the
variation in pollution at district level to test the effect on the living
standards of children born during the time of peak industrialisation. They use the heights of soldiers that enlisted
in World War I and trace them to the places they were born. They compare the
heights of these young men to the quality of the air in the districts they were
born, finding that children born in districts with high coal intensity were also
likely to be much shorter adults when they enlisted in the Great War. Pollution
clearly resulted in substantial stunting of children – and the size of this
negative health shock can now be quantified. Another example comes with the spread of one
of the deadliest pandemics in history: the Spanish Influenza of 1918. Although
many scholars have investigated the causes and consequences of the Spanish flu,
a new paper, also published in the Journal of Economic History, shows that the effects of the pandemic were exacerbated by the high
level of air pollution in many rapidly growing cities. “Cities that used more coal experienced tens of thousands of excess
deaths in 1918 relative to cities that used less coal with similar pre-pandemic
socioeconomic conditions and baseline health.” Pollution spread diseases faster and with
greater intensity. Air pollution also affects the health of the
environment that humans rely on for their food. To measure this, economic
historian Keith Meyers, in a third paper in the same journal, reports the
effects on agricultural production of nuclear tests that the US conducted in
the 1950s. Although the nuclear tests were limited to the
Nevada Test Site, the radioactive fallout spread across hundreds of miles,
including the agricultural heartland of the Plains and
Midwestern states. The impact on agriculture was massive.
Meyers measures that the average corn farmer lost
approximately $3 658. “To put this value into perspective, the average price paid
for a 20-horsepower tractor in 1945 was $922. In 1946, the average US farm
earned $4 330 in gross income, and the average annual operating cost of a farm
1946 was $2 289.” Gross income for these farmers would have
almost been double without the nuclear tests. And that counts only the loss in
production of crop farming. The fallout also affected animal and human health
directly. As Meyer concludes: “Much of the radioactive material studied in this
article entered the food supply and was subsequently consumed by millions of
people.” To show how big the discrepancy is between
the actual and estimated cost of pollution, consider that since 1990, the US
government has paid out $2bn in compensation to victims of the fallout that
live directly ‘downwind’ of the nuclear test site. Meyers’ research shows that the victims of
the nuclear tests were far more numerate. “I find that radioactive pollution
depositing far beyond the compensation region had substantial effects on
agricultural output over a 20-year period and the value of these losses dwarf
the amount of compensation the US government has paid to some victims of
nuclear testing.” These three historical studies have very
real implications for SA today. In 2018, Greenpeace reported that Mpumalanga has some of the highest
rates of air pollution in the world. Anyone who lives
in eMalahleni would agree; there are even fog warning signs as you drive on the
N4. While the delays and financial cost overruns of Medupi and Kusile have been
much documented – the reason we might soon see the International Monetary Fund
on our doorstep – the largest cost of these coal plants remains hidden in the
ill health of future generations. This article originally appeared in the 29 August edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.