The Gauteng High Court
in Pretoria landed another legal blow on the public protector when Judge Letty
Molopa-Sethosa ruled on Thursday that President Cyril Ramaphosa had complied
with her remedial action to discipline Minister Pravin Gordhan. Judge Molopa-Sethosa
further decided that disciplinary action by the president towards Gordhan should
be suspended pending the outcome of the minister's application for judicial
review of Public Protector Busiswe Mkhwebane's report. "It
is mind-boggling that she [Mkhwebane] has not consented to the stay of remedial
action," Judge Molopa-Sethosa said. The ruling relates to a
report released on May 24 by Mkhwebane which found Gordhan had erred as finance
minister in 2010 by allowing then deputy commissioner of the SA Revenue Services
(SARS) Ivan Pillay to retire early and access his pension while staying on at
the tax agency after this. Gordhan said he would appeal her findings and
claimed they were factually and legally incorrect. Ramaphosa was instructed
to discipline Gordhan but the deadline and method were not specified. He was
told to furnish her with an implementation plan within 30 days. He wrote to
Mkhwebane saying he noted her findings and intended to comply with them, 30
days after the outcome of Gordhan's review application. Mkhwebane rejected this,
demanding that the disciplinary action be taken before Gordhan's review and the
matter headed to the high court where the president asked the court to declare
he complied with the public protector's remedial action through his
correspondence with her office and staying the disciplinary action, pending the
judicial review outcome. Different to Nkandla The judge found that
Ramaphosa always planned to implement the remedial action instructed by the
public protector and this was a different case to former president Jacob Zuma
who ran a "parallel process" in Parliament over the then public
protector's instructions on the Nkandla report. Advocate Dali Mpofu for
Mkhwebane argued last week that Ramaphosa was worse than Zuma for ignoring the
public protector's remedial action, which is binding, unless challenged by
judicial review. Judge Molopa-Sethosa
said the public protector was "inconsistent" and she consented to
suspensions of remedial action, pending judicial review in two separate
occasions in recent weeks. She also dismissed
Mkhwebane's assertions that Gordhan should have brought the urgent application,
not Ramaphosa and said the matter affects the president as he was instructed to
discipline the minister. Judge Molopa-Sethosa who
read out the entire background to the case also rejected the argument by the
public protector that Ramaphosa is trying to shield his friend, Gordhan and
said this "clouds issues". The high court awarded
legal costs as well as the fees of two counsel to Ramaphosa to be paid by the
public protector and the EFF who also joined the application to demand the
president discipline Gordhan. Certainty Both the president and
Gordhan welcomed Thursday's ruling by the high court. In a brief comment by
presidential spokesperson Khusela Diko, she said the judgement gave "certainty"
on the way forward. Gordhan's spokesperson
Adrian Lackay said the ruling should be of alarm to the public, given the
constitutional role the public protector's office plays. "The court's
rejection of the arguments made by the Public Protector and the EFF, and, in
particular, the court's conclusion that it was 'mindboggling' for the Public
Protector to oppose this application (where her usual attitude in other cases
is not to oppose such relief), ought to concern South Africans," Lackay
commented. 'Sickening idea' The public protector was
not in court in Thursday, but the head of her legal office Alfred Mhlongo said
they take note of the outcome and they will study the judgement further and
consider their options. "The decision
whether or not we are going to oppose these types of urgent applications is not
a decision we take lightly, we consider each one on a case by case basis, it is
not at random," Mhlongo added. The EFF was less
reserved than the public protector's and party spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi
slammed judge Molopa-Sethosa for a "poor" ruling. "We are now in a
situation where the powers of the public protector can be suspended like that
but also it is this sickening idea that Pravin Gordhan is above the law, it is
this sickening idea from here on that people, if they are uncomfortable with
the remedial action of the public protector, they can just go and do an
application for review," Ndlozi said. He added that Thursday's
judgement will form part of their appeal to the Constitutional Court against
Judge Sulet Potterill's decision to suspend remedial action against Gordhan in
the report on the SARS 'rouge unit'. Thursday's high court
ruling against the public protector comes against the backdrop of several
ruling against her office in recent weeks. Confusion Political analyst and
constitutional expert Professor Shadrack Gutto cautioned against the narrative
that Mkhwebane has lost the public's trust. "If we use this
public protector to destroy the office, we are destroying the basis of this
democracy," Gutto told Fin24. However, political
analyst and chartered accountant Khaya Sithole said Thursday's ruling leaves
the subjects of Mkhwebane's reports confused about implementing remedial action
pending a judicial review and it would be ideal for the public protector to
take a position on whether she intends to force such affected parties to act
even when the underlying report has been challenged.