Yet
another friend told me the other day that the ANC is getting too much coverage
in South African media. She argued, with reason, that there are many other
things taking place in the country that do not get the media attention they
deserve. I wasn't
sure whether to tell her it's all sensational, or give her an answer that sits
closer to the analytical eye of someone who spends a lot of time observing the
patterns that inform perceptions about brands, including destination or country
brands. I chose the latter. Her
concerns are, of course, legitimate. We could be talking about the SA business
sector and how it deals with the same things occurring within our governing
party, if and when these issues crop up. After all, where there is money, there
is temptation. Look at what happened at Steinhoff, to choose just one example. That
is probably human nature. So, we
could be going back to focus on several companies in whose names wrong was done
in recent years - the kind of wrong that ended up with hundreds of millions,
even billions of rand being stolen; not to mention key officials being
strategically amputated in their attempts to separate their acts from the good
name of their companies. We could
look at where those people find themselves, today, and whether, thanks to Google
searches, those people are now hiding in shadows of their own making while they
wait for the reputational dust to settle, hoping that someone will forget what
they did in the past and offer them another chance. We could
talk about all these things and a lot more, including exciting developments in
the South African tech space and how increasing numbers of new ideas are being created,
sometimes in badly lit spaces, to help meet the challenges of an ever-changing
world. But we
cannot do that with all the attention it requires while the madness we continue
to be subjected to, as a country, continues. Perhaps
we could ignore the madness if it were happening in a fringe political party far
removed from the public coffers and policy making levers, one that could cough
all it wanted without the rest of us catching a cold. This, sadly, is not the
case. Everything
that happens in South Africa, and all the sentiments that exist at home and
around the world about the country’s reputational health and the direction in
which it is heading, are heavily informed by what happens in the ANC. So, my
friends, we have to talk about the ruling party. Not only that; if this once-glorious
liberation movement continues to fail us, we must do as corporates do when
their leaders fail, and start serious conversations about how to strategically
amputate it or its errant leaders from the affairs of our country before it pushes
South Africa over the precipice. We should do this for the sake of both the ANC
and for our country. South Africa should not have to go down with the ANC. It is
good, on one hand, that a lot of stuff is progressively making its way into the
open, thanks to the ongoing intra-party mudslinging driven by hunger for
retribution, fear for possible jail time, attempts at character assassination
and greed. On the
other hand, all of it depresses more of us while, dangerously, it numbs the
tolerance levels of many who fail to connect the dots against what should be unacceptable
conduct by those deployed into public office by their elected parties. And it
doesn’t help that the moral high ground of a president in whom so much hope
remains invested by many, against all odds, has also come under serious attack
from those seeking to weaken his resolve to clean up the mess they caused, at
best or, at worst, to remove him from office and leave us all exposed to a
possible economic and reputational Armageddon. Everything
that happens in this economic and political engine room that the ANC has become
for South Africa, therefore determines sentiments further downstream and,
eventually, what people do. Many of those with skills that can be sold
elsewhere around the world have become open to the idea, previously
inconceivable for some of them, of quietly looking around for offshore
opportunities and of leaving the country. Some of those with money that can be
invested in the local economy continue to either hold on to it, waiting for the
dust to settle but fearing for the worst, or to take it out of the country.
They do this quietly, without making noise on social media about it. The more
they see what has been happening to public funds under the control of the ANC
in South Africa, the more determined they have become to stop, or reduce, the
taxes they pay into a system where the controls have been so weakened and
levels of impunity so high that nothing seems to happen to those who abuse
public funds. The
masses who continue to support the criminals in our system on the basis of skin
colour - failing to see the connect between the billions that have been stolen and
the rising levels of financial distress around the country, leading to infrastructure
damage and service delivery protests - need to wake up, look into the mirror,
and acknowledge what they see. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.