For small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) sustainability matters – and today, sustainability is arguably best
achieved by investing in the right technology. “The world has essentially become one marketplace, and
one workforce,” says Jacobus de Nysschen, executive director at Creative
CFO, a financial services firm based in Cape Town that is focused on the SME
sector. “To build a successful company today, you have to gain access to the
global innovation marketplace, which means embracing the right technology.” According to de Nysschen,
the rapidly changing nature of the modern work environment is requiring
business owners and entrepreneurs to rethink their traditional structures – and
to look towards a more global and collaborative way of working. “To survive and thrive in an increasingly complex and
dynamic environment, one requires an equally dynamic organisational structure
in order to properly address the new challenges and opportunities,” he says. Cloud-enabled
collaboration While it may sound contradictory, de Nysschen argues that technology should be
used to build relationships “to work together on a human level”. In his view,
success for SMEs is reliant upon building world-class teams, and harnessing
technology to collaborate with top professionals – no matter where they may be
located. To drive collaboration, in
real time, he asserts that SMEs must harness cloud computing in the form of
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS) (see sidebar). “With cloud computing,
SMEs are able to leverage best-of-breed technology, using an accessible, subscription-based
model,” adds de Nysschen. “This allows
them to compete with businesses that have huge balance sheets and access to
capital.” Transforming
the finance department A clear example of how the
cloud is empowering SMEs can be found in the growing role of cloud-based
accounting software. New, virtual accounting platforms are enabling business
owners to collaborate and work with accountants ‘in the cloud’ by accessing
the same set of accounting records – in real time – and sharing information more
freely with each other. This
means that instead of capturing data manually, the cloud offers integrated
solutions whereby, for example, bank transactions feed directly into the system
– removing errors and saving time. Naturally, this
frees up accountants and financial managers to provide more analysis and advisory
around growth opportunities for SMEs. Colin Timmis, country manager at Xero South Africa,
which provides online, cloud-based
accounting software, also points out that
cloud-based accounting is creating new opportunities for SMEs through data. This
is because digital platforms, whereby data is stored on one, common server,
make it easier to integrate accounting with other functions – and with other key
SME role players. “At
Xero, for example, we’ve announced new agreements with three South African
digital lenders: Bridgement, Retail Capital, and Lulalend,” notes Timmis in
Xero’s 2019 State of South
African Small Business report. “Initiatives like these will improve businesses’ access
to funding – and make the accounting function more versatile and
multidimensional.” Change on the horizon The
2019 Xero report, conducted in partnership with IT consultancy World Wide Worx,
found that only 22% of local SMEs are using cloud accounting tools – with 23%
of all respondents still doing their books manually. This
should begin to change soon, however, as overall tech savvy increases and the
technology itself becomes more accessible. Arthur Goldstuck, managing director
of World Wide Worx, says that SMEs will probably leapfrog from basic, paper-based
accounting to cloud platforms in the next 24 months – largely because of new
data centres coming online in South Africa. Earlier this year, Microsoft launched enterprise-grade data
centres in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Additionally, Amazon Web Services (AWS)
says it will open an infrastructure region in SA in the first half of 2020. According
to experts, the new data centres will provide African businesses with far
greater availability to cloud services, at a lower cost. “Previous
to the South African data centres coming online, local businesses were forced
to connect to data centres in Europe and North America – which put them at a
disadvantage to global competitors with decreased latency and higher costs,”
says Goldstuck of World Wide Worx. Training
is key Although
the increasing availability of cloud platforms (coupled with better
connectivity in the form of fibre and impending 5G rollouts) will certainly
give SMEs a boost, it ultimately falls on business owners to drive technology
adoption. Xero’s
Timmis explains that a major
barrier to technological adoption today is training. “While
this wasn’t reflected in our survey, it’s fair to say that most employees are not hired for
their cloud computing skills,” he says. The
2019 survey found that 67% of businesses don’t intend to allocate budget for training
employees around ‘using their essential technologies’. “There’s an argument that
these tools should be intuitive or self explanatory, but
it’s not unreasonable to expect
that a new invoicing software or CRM system will have a learning curve –
however deep
or shallow,”
notes Timmis. “Putting processes in place for training employees can be
costly in the short term but will pay dividends in the long term as teams upskill themselves
with little supervision or additional expense. The financial impact of training
an existing team is usually lower than the price of interviewing, hiring and on-boarding
new staff.” Moreover,
the Xero report warns that when employees are expected to self-teach and figure
it out as they go, they run the risk of “learning to work around the technology
rather than with it”. Timmis
points to platforms such as live and online courses, webinars, and events to train
employees and to help them become more comfortable using cloud-based tools. A critical shift According
to several studies and research papers, SMEs in South Africa provide about 61%
of the country’s employment. While
many fear that new technologies such as robotics and artificial intelligence
will threaten local jobs, it is more likely that the strategic adoption of
cloud computing and other digital platforms will in fact create jobs through
enabling sustainable business growth. As the 2019 Xero/World Wide Worx report aptly
concludes: “If small businesses seize the opportunity, they won’t just transform
their fortunes, they’ll transform those of the entire country.” This article originally appeared in the 29 August edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.