 Naspers will embark on a tour to educate prospective
shareholders about its newly approved listing of Prosus on Amsterdam-based
stock exchange, Euronext, said Chief Financial Officer Basil Sgourdos. The listing was approved by shareholders attending a special
meeting after the company's annual general meeting in Cape Town on Friday. The
company said 95.51% of the N ordinary shareholders voted in favour of the
transaction, and 100% of A ordinary shareholders voted in favour of the
transaction.   Prosus is now expected to list on Euronext in early
September. Sgourdos told Fin24 in an interview that the multi-national internet
and media group appreciated the "resounding vote of confidence" from
shareholders as an exciting development in the company's history. Sgourdos said more details on the transaction and a
prospectus would be published and available on Monday. "We will now go on the road to talk to potential new
shareholders to educate them on Prosus. That should go for a week and a half.
By September 11, Prosus is expected to list on Euronext and shareholders will
still have an opportunity to decide on what to do with their shares," said
Sgourdos.    Naspers Group CEO Bob van Dijk in a statement released on
Friday, said the company was on track to list its international internet assets
as Prosus on September 11. The listing would allow Naspers to present a "new
and attractive opportunity" for global tech investors to access its
portfolio of internet businesses. "The listing is also designed to reduce our weighting
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) which we believe will maximise
shareholder value over time. We would like to thank our shareholders for their
strong support and conviction for Prosus and we look forward to finalising the
listing in the coming weeks," said van Dijk. Naspers expects to own at least 73% of Prosus with a free
float of up to 27% created through a capitalisation issue of Prosus shares to
Naspers shareholders. Naspers will retain its primary listing on the JSE,
according to the statement.  