Pitch
to Win: How to present, persuade and close the deal, by Justin Cohen Author
Justin Cohen sets the tone for this very accessible primer on pitching your
product, service or opportunity, with this assertion: If you build it and if
you pitch it better than anyone else, then and only then, will they come… maybe. There
are few if any businesses that can survive on 'quality' alone. 'Quality' is
fast becoming table stakes, the minimum required to play. For success, you need
to be able to master the art of actively persuading – or 'pitching'. This
could be selling goods or services, but could also be used to offer an opportunity
to work with your department that you make to another division in your company.
There are few people whose jobs don't require pitching a request for help, or a
request for permission. This makes the skill of pitching of concern to people
beyond the sales department. Consider
the facts: pharmaceutical companies spend more on pitching their drugs than on
research and development. Over one hundred thousand buying decisions revealed
that more than 40% of business-to-business buyers, buy based on the skills of
the person making the pitch rather than price, quality or service. The
ability to persuade in business is not a skill or talent one is born with. It is
a skill that just about anyone can, and must, acquire through practice. Without
this skill one is rendered powerless in so many situations. There
are several fundamental facts that need to be understood even before thinking
about how to pitch. They don't have to care The
first is that whoever you are pitching to, doesn't really care about you, your
company or your list of features and benefits. They care about their own needs,
their desires and their problems. There is no substitute for knowing what they
care about, so one simply has to find out one way or the other. Take the
opportunity to meet before the pitch if you can. If you don't have that option,
you might begin your pitch by saying: "Thanks so much for the opportunity
to share what I have to offer, but first I'd like to understand what you want
to achieve." Another
fundamental truth is that people like people who are like them. Building
rapport involves addressing their concern empathetically and honestly. "You're
quite right to be concerned about depth of experience – it's critical to us in
delivering on the success of this project. Fortunately, I have worked on several
projects in this field, including …" This
would make them feel that you understand them, which builds your connection. Then
reduce your pitch down to its essence, making it clear and simple. Your pitch must
always be a compelling solution to their problem, Cohen explains. Make a winning team When
a group is required to pitch, it is rarely won by one person. As such, the
relationship between team members is almost as important as the relationship
with the client. The clients must sense that the team gels well in the pitch and
will build on each other throughout the project. Have
the team members introduce each other and present their competencies, not the
people themselves. This not only demonstrates the team members' trust in one
another, but allows for more to be known about the person than he or she might
feel comfortable expressing. When
it is your colleague's opportunity to present or answer a question, it's
important to focus on them with a positive facial expression and upright
posture. This is a clear indication that you like and respect them and are
interested in what they are sharing. "A team is not a group of people who
work together. A team is a group of people who trust each other." Energy, enthusiasm Cohen
quotes a survey of top European companies identifying the reasons for a winning
pitch. The number one reason given was energy and enthusiasm - exuding
confidence. This is important because a lie expressed confidently is more
likely to be believed than the truth expressed doubtfully. We
are so much more persuasive when we make eye contact. This is why in smaller
groups one needs to be sure to give everyone the courtesy of at least that kind
of contact. An
engaging opening gathers everyone's attention and interest. After your opening,
your closing is more important than anything else. If you don't give a call to
action don't be surprised if they don't act. Research indicates that people are
more likely to buy when they're explicitly told what to do. Some
believe that if our prospective clients like what they've heard they'll buy
without us asking them to. That is simply not true. The call to action should be
something they can do right now that is easy to do, and that feels like a
natural next step. At the very least bring the person right into the conclusion. Compare
these two statements for generating commitment. "The Super Suck Vacuum
Cleaner sucks up twice as much dirt," as compared with "When you
clean your house with the Super Suck Vacuum Cleaner you will suck
up twice as much dirt." In the second statement the potential buyers can
see themselves using your product. So,
my conclusion. When you have read this book, either as your pitching primer or
as a reminder of good advice you know but may have forgotten to use, you will have
greater control over your pitching success. Readability         Light
+--- Serious Insights              High
--+-- Low Practical              High -+--- Low *Ian
Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and implementation and is
the author of 'Strategy that Works' and 'The Executive Update.' Views
expressed are his own.