The fires currently consuming Brazil's Amazon rainforest
seem a world away from the tense diplomacy in the US trade war with China. In
truth, they're more closely connected than you might suspect, writes David
Fickling. One of Beijing's main acts of retaliation in the fight has
been to freeze purchases of the 30 million metric tons to 40 million tons of
American soybeans it imports each year. That's left it more dependent than ever
on Brazilian soy to take up the slack. Chinese imports from Brazil in the 12 months through April
came to 71 million tons, about as much as it imported from the entire world in
2014. As we've written, that's driving an investment boom into
Brazil's farm sector, with major agribusiness players such as Nutrien and
Mosaic shifting their focus to South America to take advantage of Beijing's
desire to diversify away from dependence on US food supplies. In a sense, this shouldn't have a direct impact on the
Amazon. Most Brazilian soy is grown in the cerrado, a vast area of savannah to
the south and east of the rainforest. Agricultural investment has concentrated
on converting cerrado land currently used for pasturing livestock into
row-crops like soybeans. That process should be able to result in a huge expansion of
arable land without touching the Amazon. The trouble is, even
Brazil has a finite amount of land and if you squeeze the balloon in one place,
it risks popping out in another. As it is, most of the expansion of Brazil's
arable land over the past decade appears to have come at the expense of
regrowth forest, which tends to be less well-protected than primary forest like
the Amazon. This year's fires could see ranchers driven out of the
cerrado by arable crops to seek new pastures in freshly-cleared former
rainforest in the Amazon. That's particularly dispiriting because preservation
campaigns appear to have started paying off in recent years, with clearing of
Brazil's primary rainforest almost brought to a halt over the past decade
despite the ongoing felling of regrowth woodlands. President Jair Bolsonaro has already promised a more
aggressive approach to developing the Amazon, scorning environmental concerns
and jokingly referring to himself as "Captain Chainsaw." Even when activity is kept away from the Amazon, land
conversion has a damaging effect on the atmosphere. Brazil's cerrado
pastureland can be quite densely forested, with livestock grazing beneath the
open canopy of the trees. Converting that to row crops necessitates uprooting
those carbon-sequestering trunks, one reason it's such a costly and difficult
process. In addition, pastureland trampled by livestock is quite effective at
locking atmospheric carbon up in the soil, but arable fields tilled every year
fail to make as much difference. It's still hard to tell exactly who is responsible for the
84% increase in fires in Brazil's forests over the past year. The intensity of
the infernos is likely the result of drought, although the rising number of
blazes almost certainly comes from an increase in deliberate human activity. More than half of outbreaks have been in the Amazon, with
another 30% in the cerrado and most of the rest in the coastal Atlantic forest. The danger of the current situation is that China's hunger
for soy may derail the halting recent progress in ending deforestation. The
European Union in June concluded a trade agreement with the South American
Mercosur bloc after two decades of negotiation, but Bolsonaro's insouciant
attitude to the Amazon represents a stumbling bloc for European governments who
are needed to ratify the deal. Brazil's agribusiness sector has even lobbied Bolsonaro's
government to take greater steps to halt deforestation, out of fear that his
confrontational stance could jeopardize the EU-Mercosur deal and hurt their
exports. China, on the other hand, tends to be a much more hands-off
trading partner, and long-standing concerns about food security mean Beijing
has been unusually solicitous of Brazil's approval. If anything could nudge
Bolsonaro toward ignoring his country's land barons and following his instincts
instead, it's the prospect of a rich alternative source of foreign exchange
from China. This would be a miserable and unexpected outcome from the
current trade war. Despite coming to office on a pledge to revive the coal
industry and tear up environmental rules, President Donald Trump has mostly
failed to reverse the greening of America's power sector and the auto
industry’s drive toward lower tailpipe emissions. His trade fight with an equally carbon-addicted China,
however, encouraged that country to embark on a ruinously carbon-intensive
industrial stimulus last year, and may now be driving Brazil to uproot more of
its forests. The grimmest climate legacy of the Trump administration may well
come not from energy policy, but from trade.