Emirates planes out of Johannesburg to Dubai are always packed when I
fly with them, from business class to the back of the plane, and they fly out
multiple times a day.  British Airways is the same story, with flights
taking off out of Cape Town and Johannesburg to London regularly. The routes are money-spinners for the global players, and they also
reveal how the capture of SAA has impacted the ambitions of what used to be a
great African airline, which has been crashed by greed and malfeasance. In the era of former President Thabo Mbeki, SAA had a plan to be the leading
pan-African airline, and to connect the rest of the continent with the
globe.  While South Africa is at the southern point of Africa, its infrastructure
meant it had a justifiable hope of being a connector hub for intra-African trade
and a staging post for air traffic from China, Europe and the Americas. But stats out this week from the consultancy OAG Aviation, published
in The Africa Report, show how those hopes have been dashed. Read: Ferial Haffajee on the 5 lessons black business can learn from the Stellenbosch Mafia The most profitable route on the continent is now run by Emirates
(Johannesburg to Dubai), even though the airline runs the oldest and most dated
parts of its fleet on the route.  (I recently travelled from Johannesburg
to Athens with Emirates and it flew a near empty A380 from Dubai to Athens. You’ll
hardly find that plane on the much more lucrative flights out of SA.) British Airways runs the second-most profitable route in Africa (Johannesburg
to London) and its Cape Town to London route is also among the top-10
money-spinners.  Emirates flights from Cape Town to Dubai are also in the
top 10. Ethiopian Airlines is quickly catching up and it won’t be long before it
gets into the top 10, from which SAA has been turfed.  It is no longer
even a regional player as the stop-start operations of SA Express revealed this
week. Read: Ferial Haffajee: Reading the signs, Eskom’s death spiral is about to speed up You can’t blame the slide of SAA out of the top 10 on fuel prices
because these evenly affect all airlines, and the local airline has always received
some subsidy if you think government support is the main tailwind beneath
Emirates wings. Instead, blame it on state capture, and if we want to get personal, on
the era of Dudu Myeni, who was the hapless but avaricious chairperson of SAA
for far too long. The chairperson of the Jacob Zuma Foundation was catapulted to the top
of SAA, a position to which she was wholly unsuited, by her pal. She brought trailing in her wake
a little known (and likely bent) consultant who proceeded to try and rewrite
airline procurement - from planes to apron services to catering and anything
else - so Myeni could introduce a crony and probably get a massive kickback. It's all coming out at the Zondo commission of inquiry. Myeni ran the airline into the ground but it’s unlikely she will ever
have to account for this as it is small fry compared with the big capture. The implications of that are clear in the aviation statistics released
this week: SAA’s ambitions to become a leading world airline were firmly within
reach, given the size of the market and the demand for flights, but those plans
lie like debris strewn. The gap has been filled by Emirates, the well-run airline owned by the
UAE, and by British Airways, both of whom are making a killing as they take up
SAA’s lost ground and lost markets. Makes you want to reach for the sick-bag, doesn’t it?