South African Broadcasting Corporation board hopeful Mamodupi
Mohlala-Mulaudzi may have had an impressive resume, but found herself facing
questions in Parliament regarding past controversies and boardroom battles. Parliament’s portfolio committee on communications began the
process of filling eight vacancies on the SABC's board on Tuesday, interviewing
of its 24 shortlisted candidates. Mohlala-Mulaudzi is the former director-general in the department of
communications who was axed amid a controversial dispute with former minister Siphiwe
Nyanda. She took on the minister and former president Jacob Zuma in a widely
reported legal battle before being appointed
to head up the national consumer commission. She later approached the Labour Court – which ruled in her
favour – after reportedly finding out via a Sunday newspaper that that job was
up for grabs, too. She spoke of her extensive experience working in communications,
including in the Department of Communications, at the Independent
Communications Authority of South Africa, and on Telkom's initial public
offering. She also noted experience with the pensions adjudicator and
the Estate Agency Affairs board. 'Not a trouble maker' Mohlala-Mulaudzi is an attorney, and other notable experience is her
representation of South African Football Association boss Danny Jordaan in the
rape allegations against him. She was appointed to the Estate Agency Affairs board,
but said she did not believe it would constitute a conflict of interest if she
were appointed to the SABC board. DA MP Phumzile van Damme asked Mohlala about her legal
disputes with Nyanda. Zuma, whom she successfully legally challenged, had removed
her from the department. Van Damme asked if this was an example of grit in the face
of interference, or simply stubbornness. Mohlala-Mulaudzi replied: "I am not a trouble maker. I am a
proud South African. If I see that the principles I espouse are not being
advanced, I will stand up against it." She said she had worked well under Minister Trevor Manuel as
pensions adjudicator, but called a time when she worked under Minister Rob
Davies as National Consumer Commissioner "unfortunate". Assault allegations Van Damme asked her about an incident with a domestic
worker whom Mohlala accused of stealing from her in a row that led to her
husband reportedly assaulting the domestic worker. Mohlala-Mulaudzi confirmed a physical altercation, but said it was
the domestic worker that assaulted her. She denied that her husband assaulted
the domestic worker or tried to pay the domestic worker off to keep quiet about
an assault. She said the fact that the domestic worker withdrew her
charges on the matter spoke for itself. When asked about the SABC’s inability to collect TV license
revenue, Mohlala-Mulaudzi suggested a "lifetime TV license", since the SABC
experiencing difficulty inspecting compliance. Committee member for the DA Veronica Van Dyk asked her if she would continue to represent Jordaan in his rape case if appointed to the
SABC board, to which Mohlala said she would not. Asked about the SABC’s plans to retrench staff, she said
she did not support retrenchment as a means of stabilising the SABC. She said the business could be made more viable, and South
Africans did not need to lose jobs to save the broadcaster.