Investec for Intermediaries was recently launched, bringing dedicated relationships, an integrated digital platform and client-focused solutions together under a single Specialist Bank. Speaking at the launch of Investec for Intermediaries, a new dedicated business unit within Specialist Bank, guest speaker and technology expert, Willem van der Post, explained how exponential change is affecting our lives on every level. "Because new technologies can find better ways of doing things, change happens in an exponential way," he said. "Unfortunately, humans understand change in an incremental, linear way. The challenge is for us to think exponentially about change." René Grobler, head of Investec for Intermediaries, explained that, as the business and its partnership with intermediaries evolved, so has the need to offer these in a holistic way that is integrated and seamless for its intermediary clients. Investec for Intermediaries brings together all the current Specialist Bank products and services financial intermediaries receive from Investec – Cash Management (CCM); Forex; Structured Products; Specialist Investments; Equities and Prime Services. "We listened closely to our intermediary clients and the feedback was clear – they want a focus on their specific needs as well as access to all of our services, they want to leverage off Investec's expertise across the product and service offerings and solutions that help their businesses to grow in this exponentially changing world," said Grobler. Investec for Intermediaries is designed to deliver these in a holistic way. "The digital platform through which we offer these services is important, but equally important are the relationships that we foster through Investec for Intermediaries," said Grobler. "It's a balance to ensure intermediary clients still have access to the strong product offering and the team of specialists that help deliver these products and ensuring we stay ahead of the curve in terms of innovation and disruption." Through a single dedicated relationship manager, each intermediary will get access to all of our solutions. However, they won't lose access to the product or service specialists. All of this is supported by the Intermediaries Online platform. 