The
Critical Few: Energize Your Company's Culture by Choosing What Really Matters.
By Jon Katzenbach, James Thomas, and Gretchen Anderson You
might well have seen it too. The company develops a compelling strategy, with
stretch, but achievable goals, and complete with a solid plan of action. "This
one will work!" is the prevailing sentiment. And it doesn't. A
similar scenario accompanies a large swathe of commitments to change.  "A powerful common thread links these
scenarios," write the authors. "When there is a big change to make, a
change of any type, powerful emotional forces in the organizational culture
seem, at first blush, to resist." While
the actual commitment to change was a relatively quick process, the execution never
is. Making a commitment to change stick, is a constant challenge to management,
and one the seems to defy efforts to address it. The
primary cause that underlies the 'way things are done around here', are deep
seated emotions that are not amenable to being upended by rational arguments
and theoretical complexity. On
the other hand, positive emotions can energise any effort and give it the best
chances of succeeding. The myth of corporate culture In
our attempt to tame and change the corporate culture that is holding back the implementation
of the strategy or any other commitment to change, we have made the cognitive
error of thinking in terms of a single 'corporate culture'. This is never so,
except in micro-enterprises. Institutions of any size are by definition
multicultural. There
is, for example, the aggressive culture of John's sales group. The slow but
steady culture of Amy's admin department. The solid, hard-driving culture of
the executive team. All materially different. "If
you really want to change your company, you'll need a high level of empathy,
great persistence and resolve, rigorous focus, and a practical methodology that
brings out the best in your current cultural situation," explains Jon
Katzenbach, a doyen of the international consulting industry. Changing
any organisation requires emotional commitment, not rational compliance. Knowing
how much trouble the company is in if they don't make serious changes now, is
never enough to effect change. So,
what is? Cognitive shifts The
first cognitive shift is to forgo any desire to make a swift switch from the
current excuse culture, to a personal ownership culture, any time soon. If the
change is worth doing, it is worth a multi-year commitment.  (I like doing a financial projection of the
cost of not changing with clients, because the unspoken response is often: If
it takes that long why bother?! The numbers never lie…) If
it were easy to correct a flawed culture, everyone would do it. It is because
it is so hard that few succeed and reap the rewards. The
startling insight Katzenbach brings to the subject is how elegantly simple this
can be. (Simple, not easy.) He knows this because he has done this successfully,
over decades. To start the process, the authors explain, requires attention to the
emotional forces in your current culture and have them working with you not
against you. There
are undoubtedly some reservoirs of genuine positive emotional energy somewhere in
your current cultural situation that can be harnessed. This is an important
recognition because we tend to fixate on the squeaky wheel. Three-part process The
book provides a usable three-part process that, with a combination of
persistence and patience, will achieve what all the whiz-bang, or detailed
plans of action never did. Find a critical few traits and use them. Identify a
few critical behaviours. Nurture a few 'authentic, informal leaders". A
trait is "the scaffolding for how any group of people thinks, feels, and
behaves." These are the stable and prominent qualities that are shared
across a company. The use of the word trait is significant – it is similar to a
"family resemblance" across the company. Traits could be a casual
approach to time, or finger-pointing, a positive feeling towards the company, or
ambitiousness. To identify the traits, get people
to tell stories about what's important to them. What do they tell their friends
about the company? What do they love about coming to work? What frustrates them
at work? "In every situation, a patient and thorough diagnostic has
surfaced traits that were, to the surprise and agreement of all, common and
consistent across the full span of the organisation." Use
every means available to learn of the traits: What do people display on their
desks? Do people move quickly or slowly to make decisions? What speeds up or
slows down the process? Emotional
energy is released as traits. When the common traits are described back to
people, they will remind everyone of their sense of belonging to something
larger than themselves. Then
there are the critical behaviours. Successful organisational change requires
the use of clear changes in specific behaviours. "People are much more
likely to act their way into a new way of thinking, than to think their way
into a new way of acting." Identify a few critical behaviours. Each begins
with a verb and should be understandable by the newest employee. Traits
are neutral; desired behaviours are positive. You
start by compiling a list of behaviours that you believe will encourage success.
Ask questions about what gets in the way of people doing their best work or
what keeps the company from achieving what you aspire to. When people can feel
an emotional as well as rational alignment between their company's identity and
purpose and their own individual behaviours, they feel connected. Then
get the company to use just a few behaviours with discipline and regularity.
Look for those that generate positive emotions and connectivity between people.
You might even have the team members looked one another in the eye and
committed to holding one another accountable for these behaviours and alerting
them when they don't. If
constant interruptions interfere with the team doing their best work, the
behaviour could be always asking sincerely: When is a good time to ask you a
question? ("I'll be done in 30 minutes.") This is a good behaviour if
a company's trait is a commitment to quality work. The
third part of the culture change process is to identify "authentic
informal leaders" (AILs). "Most leaders don't think to engage AILs
who are off the radar of senior management," the authors note. AILs are informal
leaders within a group, people who are good with people and are able to connect
easily with them and influence them. Identify
the AILs and let these people know that their input matters. Every organisation
has people whose social capital and emotional intuition sets them apart from colleagues.
Engaging AILs can help the organisation accomplish what would otherwise be
considered impossible. They are that important! AILs
need to be identified, supported and nurtured. Because of their influence in a
subset of the company – a unit or team, they can punch above their weight and impact
your effort to transform your organisation's culture. The
fact that culture determines a company's success is an idea whose time has
come. This clever book offers a workable approach. Readability         Light
-+--- Serious Insights              High
+---- Low Practical              High ++--- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and
implementation and is the author of 'Strategy that Works' and 'The Executive
Update.' Views expressed are his own.