President Cyril Ramaphosa told South Africans
last year that unemployment was the
greatest challenge ever facing the country. Nobody disagrees. We all witness on a daily basis
the devastating ripple effect of unemployment in our cities, neighbourhoods and
villages. However, we believe that the tax on sugary
beverages – also known as the sugar tax – is a damaging policy that is harming
government’s job creation initiatives. Government
was warned Before the implementation of the sugar tax in
April 2018, the sugar industry repeatedly warned government about diminishing
revenue and job losses. Now that the sugar tax has been in place for
close to 12 months, we are in a position to assess its actual impact – R1.3bn in
reduced revenue and 10 000 jobs at risk. These are jobs in the canegrowing
sector alone, with further jobs at risk in the sugar milling and beverage
industries. To add insult to injury, the sugar tax was
increased by a further 5,2% in the 2019/20 budget, which will no doubt lead to
more severe revenue losses and translate into more job losses. Blunt
instrument for a complex problem The fact of the matter is there is currently no
concrete evidence that the tax on sugary beverages has had any discernible
impact on obesity in South Africa. Obesity is a multi-faceted problem with many
causes – inactive lifestyles, an increasing dependence on cheap junk food and
genetics are some of the major factors that contribute to this epidemic. To show
that the sugar tax has a tangible impact on public health, one would need to do
an analysis of obesity before and after the implementation of the sugar tax,
controlling for other variables. To our
knowledge, no such study has been done. We therefore
think that it is irresponsible to raise the sugar tax – which we know is
costing thousands of jobs – when there is no evidence that the tax has made a
positive impact on public health. A momentous
blow The sugar tax has from the outset dealt a
momentous blow to the sugar industry that is reeling from the consequences of a
prolonged drought, plunging sugar prices and weak protection against cheap
imports. In
light of these challenges, we are determined to work with
government to ease the dire situation that canegrowers – including
small-scale growers, land reform farmers and farmworkers find themselves in. Canegrowers will in the next few days meet with Trade and Industry
Minister Rob Davies to discuss potential diversification strategies and
alternative markets for sugar such as biofuels, ethanol production, cane-based
packaging and even electricity generation. The
sugar industry is completely behind such innovations and believes it can
potentially restore the wellbeing of the sector, make it more competitive and
prevent imminent job losses. Nevertheless, we maintain that government should
immediately enact a moratorium on the sugar tax until a thorough and complete socio-economic
impact assessment has been done. This will help secure the jobs of thousands of
people, including the future and livelihood of small-scale growers and land
reform farmers. Graeme Stainbank
is Chairperson of the SA Canegrowers Association. Views expressed are his own.