Belts may be tightened across SA, but it's not only due to a
tough economic climate – fast foods are going down well too. Spur's group revenue
increased by 5.3% to R370.2m in the six months ended December 31, 2018, the
corporation said on Thursday. The corporation – which includes Spur steak ranches,
Panarottis, John Dory's and The Hussar Grill – issued unaudited financial statements
and a cash dividend declaration. And despite anticipating ongoing pressures on discretionary spending
due to rising utility and living costs, load shedding and uncertainty ahead of
elections, the group says it plans to open at least 12 new restaurants across
the country in the second half of the year, including Spur Steak Ranches,
Panarottis, RocoMamas and Nikos Coal Grill brands. Spur still recovering Franchised restaurant sales in SA – excluding Captain
DoRegos, which was sold – grew by 5.7%, with sales increasing by 11.3% in the
first quarter to September 2018, the corporation said. This, it added, was supported
by "continued recovery in Spur Steak ranches" as well as a strong performance
in the Hussar Grill. The previous comparative period saw Spur battling to lift
half-year sales as it faced a triple challenge of a tough economic climate, increased
competition and a boycott following a controversial racist incident at a Spur
steak ranch that went viral on social media. The restaurant's recovery was helped along by a loyal
customer base of 1.2 million Spur Family Card members, the corporation said. Dividends maintained According to Thursday's statement, total franchised
restaurant sales across local and international operations increased by 4.8% to
R3.9bn, and by 6.5% excluding the results of Captain DoRegos. International restaurant sales increased by 12.1% on a
constant exchange rate basis and by 12.7% in rand terms, driven largely by the
opening of 14 restaurants during the period. However, headline earnings declined by 11.2% to R83.9m, with diluted headline earnings per share 10.9% lower at 87.8 cents. Nonetheless, dividends per share were maintained at 63 cents
per share. Restaurant sales in pizza and pasta – affecting Panarottis
and Casa Bella – declined by 1.5%, which the corporation put down to
"aggressive discounting" by competitors in the takeaway pizza market. Millennials hit hard The second quarter to December 2018, overall, saw weaker
performance. "Sales growth in the second quarter to December
2018 slowed to 1.2% as discretionary spending came under growing pressure,
which contributed to a further decline in shopping centre foot traffic," the
statement said. According to Spur, management's focus has been on driving
franchisee profitability, with further initiatives being undertaken following successful
promotional and discounting strategies for Spur in the previous financial year. These include expanding the range of "home-made"
products manufactured in Spur restaurants, manufacturing menu offerings in
certain brands, renegotiation rentals and reducing the size of some
restaurants. RocoMamas – which has grown restaurant sales by an annual
compound rate of 45.9% since being acquired by the group in 2015 – also saw growth
slowing down to 6.0%, which Spur explained as the urban millennial market not
being immune to the economic downturn. Higher-income customers proved more resilient, the
corporation said, with the Hussar Grill growing restaurant sales by 13.8%.