Microsoft has unveiled the results of a survey of business
leaders on the topic of artificial intelligence. The findings are surprising:
German and Russian entrepreneurs and executives appear to come out ahead of
those from the US and other advanced European economies when it comes to
adopting the technology. Mostly, however, this and several other studies confirm a
frustrating problem: The AI hype is making it impossible to figure out how much
businesses really need it and are using it. The 800 respondents in the study came from seven countries
– the US, Germany, France, the UK, Italy, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
It’s not a globe-spanning dataset and it doesn’t include the potential AI
leader, China, or one of the leaders in AI research, Canada. But the study’s
scope is respectable. It shows that the US isn’t among the leaders
of the AI race, though a 2018 study by Capgemini Consulting, for
example, puts it out ahead and Russia far behind. The problem with this survey – and a similar
one by McKinsey and Co. – is that when people say they are using AI
in their business, they may not all mean the same thing; they may not even be
describing uses that fall under the rather broad definition of AI;
and they may simply be boasting because the technology is fashionable. In a new report, "The State of AI: Divergence,
2019," the UK venture capital fund MMC Ventures claims that "one in
seven large companies has adopted AI; in 24 months, two thirds of large
companies will have live AI initiatives. In 2019, AI ‘crosses the chasm’ from early adopters to the
early majority." But the fund also reports that its examination of 2 830
purported AI start-ups in 13 European countries showed that only 60 percent
demonstrated "evidence of AI material to a company’s value
proposition." The implication is that more than 1 300 companies that
describe themselves as working with artificial intelligence do nothing of the
kind. So why does it make sense to believe non-tech
executives, even the chief information officers surveyed by the research
and consulting firm Gartner, about adoption rates? Even when the survey
respondents say they’ve deployed a specific AI-based technology, such as
chatbots or face recognition, it may mean bots that merely provide standard
answers to simple questions or age-old security scanners or nothing at all. AI has been hyped relentlessly in recent years by
politicians who don’t want their countries to fall behind in the race and
companies that want other companies to buy their technology and advice (the
survey takers generally fall into this category). As a result, for business
executives, saying you haven’t deployed AI yet is like admitting to your high
school classmates that you’re still a virgin. Eventually, things could cool down and executives might feel
more comfortable admitting that their business may not benefit all that much
from integrating AI. We all use AI in some shape or form these days, even if we
only search on Google or post on Facebook. It doesn’t mean, however, that every
enterprise needs much more than that: In many cases, even the necessary data
analysis and modelling can be done without AI. The various surveys yield noisy data – not just about
which countries are ahead in the most fashionable technology of today, but also
about the future degree of automation and thus the prospective job losses. Ajay Agrawal, Joshua Gans and Avi Goldfarb from the
University of Toronto wrote in a recent paper that among the several
hundred AI start-ups they have examined over the last few years, they "have
seen very few companies building unambiguously labour-replacing technologies."
If introducing AI doesn’t lead to obvious cost reductions, many businesses
won’t embrace it too enthusiastically in real life even if it can potentially
help them find new sources of growth. And some implementations could in fact
lead to growing costs, which may lead companies to abandon them. Any reasonable study of how AI can affect business
efficiency and employment will have to wait until the dust settles. That
doesn’t mean managers shouldn’t follow the AI applications being developed in
their field. But trying to outrun everyone in implementation is akin to buying
Bitcoin in 2017. There may well be a better time down the road to get on board.