Finance Minister Tito Mboweni tweeted that the 1 200 employees affected at Standard Bank due to a new operating model should consider farming as a fallback. Mboweni was responding to the bank's announcement on Thursday that it would be closing 91 branches to meet consumer needs. Standard Bank consumers have increasingly been adopting digital banking products and services, the financial services provider said. The bank is in a consultation process with employees. Mboweni's tweet, which has since been deleted read: "On a positive note, retrenched staff should think about this. Just a thought. Breakfast everyday: eggs, bacon, baked beans, bread!! Business opportunities: LET US GO FARMING!!" Twitter users expressed disappointment in Mboweni for deleting his tweet. One user, @Who_is_Odwa, said Mboweni was out of touch with the reality some South Africans are facing. Another user @CoruscaKhaya said the minister thinks South Africans live in a "social utopia". User @Geestar 1707 called the minister "clueless". Don't blame Standard Bank Mboweni deleted another tweet in which he said Standard Bank could not be blamed for the job losses, which have come as a result of the fourth industrial revolution. The tweet read: "Sad day for South Africa! The unwelcome consequences of the 4IR! Digitisation vs jobs, people and families! Very sad! You cannot blame the bank. They confront REALITY!"  Other Twitter users also tweeted about Standard Bank's move and voiced concerns over job security, which is threatened by technological developments. User @Banzyme2 said that a lot of jobs would become obsolete due to digitisation. Another user, @nonibybs, said she had not been in a bank in years, as most financial services are digital. Some users called for Standard Bank to find an alternative option. Another user, @JimmyRamokgopa, suggested it is a cost cutting measure. There have also been calls to close Standard Bank accounts entirely and open accounts with digital banks like TymeBank. Standard Bank has said it will provide a "comprehensive exit package" to affected employees. The bank will also set aside funds to assist employees in up-skilling, to improve their competiveness in the labour market. The bank will further assist in providing entrepreneurial training and financial assistance.