The Gupta family have hot-tailed it out of South Africa and are
now holed up in Dubai. It is well over a year since the Emirate’s rulers said
that they would start looking into the family’s involvement with high-end
corruption in South Africa, which we call state capture, but there is still a
Sahara-sized desert between the family and extradition. They are gone with our money, but the son who served as the de
facto marketing manager of the family, Atul Gupta, keeps an eye on South
Africa and especially on the current hearings into Eskom before the commission
of inquiry into state capture chaired by deputy chief justice Raymond
Zondo. The family has refused to appear before the commission of
inquiry, but they have applied to cross-examine witnesses, including the former
deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas, who was the first witness to tell the
commission how the family offered him the job of finance minister for a bribe
of R600m over instalments, and dependent on how he met their key performance
measures. Their request to cross-examine from Dubai has been refused. Atul Gupta’s Twitter feed reveals that he has an eye trained
on the commission, which is currently hearing about how the family came to own
the Optimum coal mine, along with a lucrative stake in the Richards Bay Coal
Terminal. When the banks shut off banking facilities to the family and
related entities, they lost control of Optimum, which teetered into business
rescue, from which it has not yet recovered. Optimum was going to be the start of the family’s
mega-empire: with its JIC Mining Services, the family wanted to break into
mining and to become as wealthy as the Oppenheimer family, with which it went
toe-to-toe on a private VIP terminal at OR Tambo airport. The family bought
Shiva mine a while before, and while analysts called it worthless, there is now
little doubt that the nuclear deal for a fleet of stations was being pushed
because its uranium is a feedstock for nuclear power. Gupta maintains a great interest in South Africa, according
to his Twitter feed. There is nothing on his timeline from Dubai, for example,
or even about India, except for quotes from religious leaders. The Zondo
commission of inquiry is currently hearing testimony from a range of Eskom
executives on how systems were subverted to make an estimated R600m pre-payment
to Tegeta, the name of the Gupta-owned company which took over Optimum from
Glencore. Atul Gupta follows former acting Eskom CEO and head of
primary energy, Matshela Koko, closely, and often retweets his content, which
is usually geared at seeking to prove that he and former CEO Brian Molefe were
engaged in a revolution to dislodge old monopoly coal interests at the
electricity utility to spread the gains among new players. Gupta followed last
week’s testimony by Glencore’s former SA CEO, Clinton Ephron, very closely, and
he retweeted all content critical of the global commodities trading company. Gupta continues to follow the remnants of the trolling bot
army and blogging sites the family is said to have supported through its PR
contract with the now defunct multinational Bell Pottinger. His timeline shows
he remains committed to coal; Gupta has become part of the campaign against
independent power producers (IPPs) led by Koko, who runs a selective timeline
that appears to prove that IPPs are budget-breaking and much more expensive
than nuclear or fossil fuels. Last week, he also retweeted any content which sought to
disprove former finance minister Trevor Manuel’s testimony that former Sports
minister Fikile Mbalula had been told of his elevation to the Cabinet, not by
former President Jacob Zuma, but by one of the Gupta brothers. The Budget Review, tabled in February, showed that the costs
of independent power (mostly renewable sources like sun and wind) are coming
down fast enough to rival coal. An analysis of the middle Gupta brother's
timeline reveals that he is bitter about how the family has been driven out and
how its activities are now subject to investigation in a number of forums, not
only the commission of inquiry. To temper the ugly and temporal on his timeline, Gupta also
includes messages from Swami Avdheshanand (@AvdheshanandG) and the Dalai Lama. A few days ago, Gupta tweeted this message from the Lama,
which spoke volumes about where his mind is at: "When we’re under the sway
of anger or attachment, we’re limited in our ability to take a full and
realistic view of the situation. "When the mind is compassionate, it is calm, and we’re
able to use our sense of reason practically, realistically, and with
determination."