The Public Investment Corporation said in a statement on
Monday it was not "collaborating" with AYO Technology Solutions in
opposing a compliance notice issued by the Companies and Intellectual Property
Commission against the PIC directors, directing them to recover funds invested
in AYO. Rather, it said, it was in agreement with the CIPC that losses
related to the AYO investment needed to be recovered – but it did not want to
breach the deadline set out in the original compliance notice. AYO, for its part, is attempting to have the compliance
notice set aside altogether. On the same page The state asset manager issued its statement in response to
what it called "a misleading article" published by the Sunday
Independent which, in its view, suggested it was "collaborating" with
AYO in opposing the CIPC. The CIPC issued the compliance notice on February 21 this
year, giving the PIC 15 business days to recover the R4.3bn it invested in AYO
and six months to recover any interest it may have accrued. According to the CIPC, the PIC did not act in good faith or
the best interests of the company when it decided to make the
"disproportionate" investment in AYO. The investment has drawn
controversy, among other reasons, over the R43 paid per share for a 29% stake
when – measured by net asset value – they were valued at 15 cents per share. The PIC brought a notice of motion in the North Gauteng High
Court in Pretoria on Thursday last week, with the CIPC as the respondent. AYO
is neither an applicant nor a respondent, according to the court documents seen
by Fin24. In its Monday statement, the PIC said it agreed with the
CIPC that any losses relating to its AYO investment should be recovered. The only reason for the notice of motion, set to be heard on
Tuesday, is that it does not want to breach the deadline in the CIPC's compliance
notice, the PIC said. According to the state asset manager, the CIPC agreed that
the deadline of 14 March would not leave sufficient time to undertake the
necessary legal steps to recover losses relating to the AYO transaction. According to the PIC, when the CIPC issued its Compliance
notice in February this year, the PIC and its legal team were already working
on the recovery process – and they are still engaged in it. The compliance notice was issued "on the basis of
inaccurate information at the disposal of the CIPC", especially about the role
of the PIC board in relation to the AYO transaction, the asset manager added. Interdict bid AYO issued a notice to shareholders on Monday, stating that
it brought an urgent application in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on
Thursday 7 March to interdict the CIPC from enforcing the notice issued to the
PIC's board in February and to interdict the PIC from acting on the notice. According to AYO, it applied to the court to have the notice
issued by CIPC set aside. "AYO maintains that the uptake by the PIC of its listed
shares through a private placement in December 2017 was fully transparent and complied
with all the necessary legal requirements and will defend any action which
seeks to undermine AYO's contractual rights," AYO said in its statement. The PIC said it did not support the AYO application and was
not collaborating with AYO "in any shape or form". "Any suggestion to the contrary is mischievous and
uncalled for. The PIC reserves its rights in this regard," the PIC
statement concluded.