There’s more to life than money,
and economists know it. As new assessments of global living standards
proliferate, attempting to gauge how healthy, happy and successful humans are
depending on where they live, a pattern is slowly emerging. While slight variations in
data can throw up different winners, smaller countries are increasingly
dominating the top of the lists while big countries with booming economies fall
behind. A new analysis, the Global
Wellness Index published by investment firm LetterOne, ranks Canada as the best
country out of the 151 nations evaluated. The U.S. trails far behind, coming in
at 37. In a tighter ranking of G20 nations combined with the 20 most populous
countries on the planet, South Africa comes in dead last, below Ukraine, Egypt
and Iraq. Based on a basket of metrics
ranging from government healthcare spending to rates of depression, alcohol
use, smoking, happiness and exercise, the new index is the latest attempt by
economists to evaluate the world beyond economic growth. Last month,
Bloomberg’s own research named Spain the world’s healthiest country. A common thread in both
surveys, and others like them, is that the top ranks are increasingly filled
with smaller countries. This may be tied to researchers developing new metrics
for the modern world, measures that don’t necessarily correlate economic health
with actual health—let alone wellness—at the expense of other, more nuanced
barometers. "The old concerns about
growth—that it does not include every country, or every person in growing
countries—are ever present," said Richard Davies, a former Bank of England
and U.K. Treasury economist who compiled the Global Wellness Index. Davies’ dashboard ranks
Canada highly due to its good scores for blood pressure, life expectancy and
government healthcare spending, but it also pays close attention to the
country’s high happiness levels. South Africa, once a beacon of economic
growth, scores poorly for life expectancy, alcohol use, depression and diabetes. In the overall list, several
major economies struggle when ranked against smaller, healthier countries. The
global top 10 includes large nations such as the Philippines and South Korea,
but also finds room for Oman, Iceland, Maldives, Netherlands and Singapore. The U.K. was ranked 15th,
held back by high rates of obesity and inactivity. Big countries such as Japan,
Germany, France or Italy failed to make the news survey’s global top 25, with
all four faring poorly for rates of high blood pressure. Middle Eastern countries
ranked relatively high due to good scores in the alcohol category. The U.S. was hampered by
excessive obesity, depression, inactivity and other items, Davies said. The Global Wellness Index
focuses on ten key metrics: blood pressure, blood glucose, obesity, depression,
happiness, alcohol use, tobacco use, exercise, healthy life expectancy and
government spending on healthcare. Data was gleaned from standard sources
including the World Health Organization’s Global Health Observatory and the United
Nations, as well as the World Happiness Report and public health data.
Countries are ranked from the weakest to the strongest across every metric. Any
with more than one missing data point were excluded, leaving 151 in the final
composite rankings. Additionally, G20 nations
were ranked alongside the "P-20" nations with the highest
populations, to produce a list that excludes small nations but covers more than
95 percent of the global population. "While rich countries
tend to lead, many emerging economies score more highly than some advanced
nations. This is down to huge increases in life expectancy in these countries
in recent years," Davies said, pointing also to high rates of depression
and obesity in advanced countries. "The low scores for
countries like South Africa—an economy lauded for its growth rate in the
2000s—shows that simply ranking an economy based on traditional economic
metrics like GDP alone can miss important parts of the story when it comes to
the well-being of a nation." Economies of the future may
end up being judged on three levels, Davies said. Those could include
traditional measures of the whole economy, such as GDP and employment rates;
indicators that point to how equitable and fair a country is; and a new layer
including measures of health, happiness and well-being. "The challenge is that
this top layer may be both the one the public care most about and the hardest
to measure."