One of the hottest sectors in real estate investment trusts
last year may no longer spark joy with investors. Marie Kondo,
the tidying-up sensation, may be partly responsible. Shares of self-storage REITs were up 3% last year, including
dividends, in what was a tough market for real estate. Hotel REITs fell 12%,
including dividends, in 2018. REITs focused on shopping centres dropped nearly
15%. Overall, REITs lost 5% last year, worse than the overall
stock market. The basic reason for the success of self-storage thus far is
pretty evident: We buy a lot of stuff, and we don’t like to throw it away.
That’s created a steady stream of demand for self-storage units for a while. The self-storage industry became a true diamond in the rough
after the financial crisis. Developers stopped building. Foreclosures
meant people needed a place to put their 65-inch TVs, sectional
couches and all the other stuff they bought on lines of credit to fill up their
McMansions. Storage prices rose. Profits soared. Minimalist mania Now supply is catching up, as is KonMari-method
mania and its minimalist appeal. Salvation Army stores nationwide have
experienced a big pickup in donations since late last year when Netflix began
airing "Tidying Up with Marie Kondo," which features the Japanese
organizational guru whose main tenet is what doesn’t bring pleasure
must go, and not to a storage facility but for good. But the biggest problem for self-storage may be too much
space. Developers added about 100 million square feet of storage facilities in
the US last year and spent more than $4bn, according to real estate
advisory firm Green Street Advisors. That was double what they spent in 2016, which was 50% more
than the year before that. Green Street estimates development this year will
most likely match 2018, still near peak levels. And there turns out to be a lot
more places to put stuff than it appeared just a few years ago. Two-year-old startup Neighbor wants to be the Airbnb of
storage, allowing people with extra garage space to hook up with people who
have extra boxes. Last month, Clutter, which offers an Uber-like storage app
that allows users to schedule pick-ups and redelivery on a smartphone, raised
$200m from a group of investors led by Softbank’s Vision Fund. On top
of that, in what is certainly a sign of late-consumerism, U-Haul recently
bought 13 Kmart and Sears locations to turn them into self-storage
facilities. Imagine filling the former stores of the now bankrupt
retailer with stuff that people bought there but have no place to put. "The
storage REITs have been seen as a safe bet, but not with the supply coming on
line and tech disruptors at the gates," said Aaron Edelheit, CEO of
Mindset Capital. Disappointment, distress None of this seems to have been fully packed into the
self-storage companies’ shares, which Green Street says are still
trading at a premium to their assets, and other REITs. Shares of the $37bn
REIT Public Storage, the industry’s largest, did lag the market last year,
but only after handily outperforming the S&P 500 Index in nearly every
year since the end of the recession. On a conference call with analysts
last week, Public Storage CEO Joe Russell warned there was trouble ahead
for new storage facilities, particularly large ones. "I think there is an element of both disappointment and
potentially and ultimately some level of distress that could come" from
all of the large stores, said Russell, whose company has a
270,000-square-foot facility, one of the largest in the country, in the Bronx.
And it’s building a giant facility in nearby Jersey City. READ: #Budget2019: Mixed bag for home owners, say property experts Extra Space Storage, the second-largest storage REIT in the
US, recently began offering bridge loans to other operators of storage
facilities to supplement growth. Shares of that company are trading at
nearly 20 times its funds from operations, which is the standard metric of
earnings for REITs. But Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Lindsay Dutch says Extra
Space’s growth in funds from operations could slow to just more than 1% in
2019, from nearly 7% last year. CubeSmart, which rounds out the big three in the industry,
said on its recent earnings conference call that 50% of its facilities
would face new local competition, up from 40% last year, and 25% the year
before that. The highest flier of the sector is Life Storage.
Its shares have gained nearly 29% in the past year, including dividends.
It has been growing faster than much of the industry, but the company is more
concentrated than others in Texas, and the aftermath of flooding in Houston
during Hurricane Harvey in 2017 may have given the company
an earnings boost as displaced residents sought to store their
belongings. Last week, the company reported that its net income rose 114%
last year. But included in those earnings was the detail that Life Storage
is selling older properties and using the proceeds to buy newer ones.
Exclude the gains on those sales, as well as some other accounting costs, and
its profit growth shrinks to 5%. Applying the Kondo principles, investors will need to
consider how much joy the storage REITs are likely to spark going forward.
Their prospects only look more cluttered from here.