Oil declined after an industry report showed a massive increase in US
crude stockpiles, ahead of more comprehensive data from the government. Futures fell by about 1 percent in New York, after closing lower on 
Tuesday. US inventories 
swelled by 7.29 million barrels last week, the American Petroleum 
Institute was said to report. If Energy Information Administration data 
due Wednesday confirms that, it would be the biggest 

increase in six weeks. The 
OECD cut its outlook for global growth again amid trade tensions and 
political uncertainty. Though crude prices rallied more than 25% in the first six 
weeks of the year, the gains have fizzled. The 
Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its partners have been
 cutting output to prevent a glut, and sanctions on members Iran and 
Venezuela are also tightening supply, but fragile oil demand and booming
 American output threaten to frustrate their efforts. “The message is clear: the US remains well-supplied and will 
continue to do so as oil production inches further into record 
territory,” said 

Stephen Brennock, an analyst at PVM Oil Associates in London. West Texas Intermediate for April delivery slipped as much as 1.3% to $55.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange before 
trading 52 cents lower at $56.04 at 12:48 am in London. Brent for May settlement was at $65.66 a barrel, down 20 cents, on the 
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The global benchmark crude’s 

premium over WTI for the same month narrowed to $9.23 a barrel. The reported gain in US oil stockpiles is significantly higher than
 the median 

forecast of a 1.45-million-barrel increase estimated by analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg before the EIA figures were scheduled for release. The rise in inventories in the world’s biggest crude consumer is 
undermining efforts by OPEC and its allies to cut production to avert a 
glut. Saudi Arabia’s energy minister, 

Khalid Al-Falih, said last week that American inventories are “brimming”
 and it’s leaning toward extending production curbs beyond June. Investors are also looking for a breakthrough on U.S.-China 
trade talks that have dragged on for the past several weeks. President Donald Trump is ready to 
walk away from a trade deal with China unless he secures a “perfect deal,” said Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. “The US-China trade talks are a complicated process,” said 

Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney. “I 
think it might be dawning on oil traders that a comprehensive agreement 
might be weeks or even months away, rather than the days they might have
 been looking at.” 