Africa’s richest woman is set to be ousted from the helm of
Angola’s biggest telecommunications company as shareholders meet Tuesday to
discuss corporate governance in the wake of legal action by one of its biggest
investors. The meeting at Unitel SA, whose chairwoman Isabel dos Santos
owns 25%, comes after an arbitration court ruled that Brazilian
telecommunications company Oi SA was entitled to receive $654 million from
other Unitel shareholders because they violated several clauses of the
company’s shareholders’ agreement and failed to pay dividends to Oi. Shareholders with as much as 75% of Unitel are likely
to vote for the removal of dos Santos, according to Antonio Estote, an independent
economist and professor at the Universidade Lusiada de Angola. Besides Oi, the
shareholders are state oil company Sonangol and army general Leopoldino do
Nascimento, who each hold 25%, according to Estote. The daughter of former Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos
Santos, Isabel amassed a fortune during her father’s almost four-decade rule
and has an estimated net worth of about $2bn, according to Bloomberg.
Besides Unitel, her business interests include media, retail, finance and
energy, both in Angola and in Portugal. Joao Lourenco, who replaced dos Santos in 2017, has made the
battle against graft the cornerstone of his administration, dismantling the
influence of his predecessor’s family over key sectors. "Dos Santos’ withdrawal weakens her in terms of power
in Angola but she is likely to maintain her stake in Unitel," Estote said
in an emailed response to questions. Sonangol has repeatedly said it wants a new board at Unitel,
while Oi has publicly expressed its disapproval with management for withholding
millions of dollars in dividend payments. Do Nascimento, who has close ties to
the Dos Santos family, is likely to vote in favor of Isabel dos Santos’ removal
to win favor with Lourenco, according to Estote. "We can’t accept that a single shareholder with 25
percent stake can take unilateral decisions at the company, Sonangol Chairman
Carlos Saturnino told reporters on February 25. "We need to reach an agreement
to appoint a new board." A spokesman for Oi declined to comment on how the company
will vote or whether it to sell its Unitel stake. Do Nascimento and Isabel dos
Santos weren’t immediately available to comment.