The SA
government recently reiterated its commitment to clean energy, with President
Cyril Ramaphosa and Energy Minister Jeff Radebe stating that renewable energy
independent power producers remain firmly part of the country’s energy future. Radebe
detailed how IPPs have benefitted the economy and rejected the notion that
Eskom incurs losses as a result of the programme. SA has perhaps the most transparent
renewable energy independent producer programmes in the world and has received
significant international acknowledgement. There is
ample evidence now that the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer
Procurement Programme in SA (REI4P) has not only secured additional MW
capacity, helping to reduce the impacts of load-shedding, but has also created
new jobs and built local communities. Minister Radebe pointed out that it has
also opened multiple opportunities for SA to advance its manufacturing capacity
and industrial development, as well as to participate in the value chain of new
technologies. However,
some lobby groups still refuse to consider the need for an energy transition,
let alone the value of achieving a managed one. Later
this month, the High Court in Pretoria will hear a case brought by the Coal
Transportation Forum (CTF) to interdict Eskom from signing duly procured power
purchase agreements with preferred bidders from round 4 onwards, and explicitly
including those selected in the "smalls round" of SA’s
renewable-energy independent power producer (IPP) procurement programme. The
forum argues that the court should set aside all power purchase agreements
signed with IPPs to date because it claims that the National Energy Regulator
of SA (Nersa) authorised them without proper public consultation. CTF has
also argued in its founding affidavit that the renewables programme will impact
negatively on Eskom’s financial performance and reduce the demand for coal by
up to 10 million tonnes a year in 2021, which would result in mines being shut
down and permanent jobs lost. The
assertion that Eskom incurs losses by entering into contracts with IPPs has
been found to be without foundation, misleading and false. In fact,
since 2013, Eskom has not incurred a cent in buying electricity from the
independent power producers which they have not been able to recover through
the tariff allowance. In February, Radebe provided an eloquent summary of
Eskom’s financial position in relation to IPPs, pointing out that the financial
statements of Eskom reflect that, after deduction of the cost of electricity
bought from the IPPs, the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation (ebitda) margin was positive. New build – not IPPs Minister
Radebe said this points to the fact that Eskom’s financial problems are mostly
related to the cost increases, including the increased interest during
construction, associated with the delay of the new-build projects Medupi,
Kusile and Ingula. By
contrast, IPPs – despite years of stop-start procurement – have proven their
capacity to deliver built programmes on time and within budget, and that they
have the capacity to take on upfront risk and debt on their own and then rely
on power purchase agreements over a twenty-year life span to recoup their
investments. This is
the kind of public-private partnership that South Africa needs to address
economic growth. Recent
statistics compiled by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
(CSIR) Energy Centre show that without renewables, SA would have experienced
higher stages of load shedding more frequently in 2018. And in
2015, 85% of all foreign direct
investment in SA was attributed to the local renewable energy industry. Today,
renewable energy is the cheapest form of new-build electricity and the price
gap between renewables and coal will continue to grow. These
are important positive facts which must inform SA’s debate on the energy mix.
And while the energy transition away from a dependence on coal may well lead to
job losses in the mining and related sectors, it’s clear that the transition to
renewable energy presents more social, environmental and economic opportunities,
than risks. At
times, change can be painful. However, instead of approaching the courts and discrediting
IPPs, lobby groups and interested parties should regard the energy transition
as largely progressive, play a leading role in managing it and prepare their
members accordingly. Government should also take the lead in the energy
transition to ensure it is just and sustainable. IPPs take
seriously their responsibility to ensure that they impact local communities
positively; to not only guarantee their social license to operate, but to also
build an inclusive economy. To date, R640.3m has been invested by IPPs into
socio-economic development contributions to communities and R204.6m in local
enterprise development. In fact, their commitment to these elements go over and
above compliance and demonstrate a significant measure of good faith. Given
the many social, economic and environmental challenges we face in South Africa,
so much more can be achieved by working together than at cross purposes. It’s
time to build more than we destroy, to be part of a managed energy transition. With
more dialogue and engagement, SA’s energy transition can be smoother and more
beneficial than it is currently set to be. Brenda Martin is the CEO of the South African Wind
Energy Association (SAWEA), which represents the interests of its members who
are invested in the South African utility scale wind and solar power value
chain. Views expressed are her own.