Platform:
The Art and Science of Personal Branding, by Cynthia Johnson The
author, Cynthia Johnson, opens her book with the words: "Repeat after me:
Personal branding is for everyone, not just the privileged and well-networked." After
explaining why that is true, she provides a slew of good ideas, references and
activities to ensure your personal brand platform is solid. Personal branding
is not just a way to gratuitously promote what you wish others to think of you:
whether you like it or not, it is the platform you stand on in front of the
world. ·       Subscribe
to Fin24"s newsletter here Having
a "personal brand" is inescapable. If you don't build and carefully curate
your brand, the world around you will do it for you, and you will be putting
your future in their hands, not yours. The choice in our hyperconnected, always-on-world,
is not whether to have a brand, the only choice is whether you manage yours or
not. Merely
to indicate the complexity involved - you are more than what you post. It is
your audiences' perception of you that is their reality. "The
goal is to define and demonstrate your identity in a way that accurately
represents your successes and paints you as the person you want to be (not
necessarily who you currently are)," Johnson explains. Before
even starting your personal branding journey, there are some fundamentals you need
to know. The first is that others already know a lot about you: you need only to
consider how much your bank has on you already, and how much your landlord
found out, not to mention Google and Facebook. You
have to know what the world sees, just as you know what the banks and landlords
see when they check your credit. People vs. brands We
are no doubt familiar with brands, but it is worth pointing out how people differ
from non-human brands. As a start: People are not trying to be brands: brands
are trying to be people. Non-human brands are used as a way of telling the
world what they are, and what they wish they were. We
are different from brands because we don't need people to wear our names or put
our faces on their belongings, to evoke the same emotional connections
naturally. So,
what is personal branding? In a way it is a misnomer. The words "personal autonomy"
would be accurate. Personal branding starts from a very different point to that
understood by many. Personal
branding begins with the ability to think for yourself – not to be like others,
or attempt to assume an identity that is not you. It is to make choices about
what you buy, do, and represent, because you like what you're choosing, not
because you need to make those choices. Yourself out loud "Personal
branding is about being yourself out loud." Yes, being yourself out loud. Of
course, you must understand what it is about you that will open doors. You also
need to understand which rooms you should be in and which rooms are out of your
league, or you should not be associated with. There
is no doubt that personal branding takes time. Your brand has got to be built
on your being authentic, instead of a manufactured version of what you think
everyone else wants you to be. This, no doubt, does require maturity, a matter
unrelated to age: one need only think back to high school, where you wanted to
be "different", just like everyone else! Personal branding is definitely
not about packaging an inauthentic version of yourself. There
are two types of power. There is power as "influence" which is
expressed in having control over others. There is also power as "autonomy",
that allows people to ignore and resist the influence of others and so be able to
shape their own destiny. It is the second type that is associated with personal
branding. Many
people think that personal branding is reserved for and used only by those who
want power and influence. This is a mistake – it is more important for people
who want freedom from being influenced or overpowered by others. Having
clarity about what you don't want and knowing that you aren't sure what you do
want, doesn't make you less authentic. It makes you more authentic. Strategic access With
personal branding defined this way, it can be used to strategically access the
audience you wish to have, who appreciate the genuine you, and enjoy being your
audience.  You will obviously have more
success with your audience the more time you spend communicating and relating
to them. Communicating authentically with the right audience, will have them
think better of you and everything you are associated with thereafter. If
you are able to influence the leaders, with or without their conscious
cooperation, you will automatically influence the group. Think
of personal branding this way: it is your résumé. A résumé doesn't only define
what we have done, but how we think. The
fact is that your résumé is everywhere. Everyone already has a brand online.
The difference is that some people control their brand and some people don't.
It determines whether the Uber driver picks you up or passes-up on you. What
people know of you from your digital presence could tell them tell them that
you are all business and should be labelled "boring". Clean up To
avoid being incorrectly branded, Johnson recommends that you "Clean up your
act". How the digital world sees you is how many people who find out about
you online, will perceive you as well. Cleaning
up your act starts with doing a thorough search to find everything you can
about yourself online. If you can find it, someone else can get to it, too. If
there is something scathing about you, don't pretend it isn't there. Sort it
out as best you can. People will forgive your mistakes, but they won't trust a
liar. A
good place to start your personal branding journey is to create your brand
message – your reference for whenever you are unsure about whether or not you should
do something. Building
your personal brand is time-consuming. While it is important, it rarely seems
urgent. Pick
five close family members and friends and give them five words or phrases that best
describe you. Do this too, and compare the difference. The
book contains this exercise as well as many guides and sites, and much
information about how to work on your Personal Brand. It's
not just an advantage to develop your personal brand; it's a distinct
disadvantage if you don't. *Ian Mann of Gateways
consults internationally on strategy and implementation and is the author of "Strategy
that Works" and "The Executive Update." Views
expressed are his own.