Volkswagen’s main car brand plans to deepen cost cuts and axe
more jobs as profits slip in the industry’s shift to electric and self-driving
cars. The German carmaker said on Wednesday it will eliminate as
many as 7 000 positions - with measures including early retirement and not
filling vacant positions - to achieve an annual profit gain of €5.9bn starting
in 2023. "We will significantly step up the pace of our
transformation so as to make Volkswagen fit for the electric and digital era,"
VW brand COO Ralf Brandstaetter said. The VW car brand, which accounts for about half of the
group’s global deliveries, employs about 185 000 workers out of a total
workforce of 650 000. VW has been pushing to rein in bloated expenses to lift
profitability that’s trailing rivals. Return on sales for VW’s namesake brand
last year fell to 3.8% from 4.2% because of higher spending on future electric
models and production bottlenecks triggered by stricter emission rules in
Europe. Labour costs are a "big concern" that risk
derailing a much-needed streamlining of operations, VW Chief Executive Officer
Herbert Diess told investors on Tuesday. Diess, who also heads up the VW brand,
has been axing slow-selling models and car variants to reduce complexity.
Further measures will include lowering material costs and lifting productivity
at its factories by 5% to achieve an operating profit margin of 6% in 2022. Chief Financial Officer Arno Antlitz acknowledged that while
the company has "higher goals" that reflect its superior scale
compared to smaller, more profitable rivals like PSA Group, VW was sticking to
the 6% target "in the mid-term" as the cost for the looming industry
transformation weighs on earnings. Volkswagen shares on Wednesday rose 1.4% to €146 at 12:11
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. VW signed a labour pact in 2016 to cut 30 000 jobs worldwide
and generate about €3bn in annual savings. The brand has achieved €2.4bn in
savings so far and a net reduction of more than 6 300 positions, despite adding
2 700 jobs including in software operations, VW said on Wednesday. "We are
on track," Brandstaetter said. Bernd Osterloh, VW’s powerful labour leader, signalled
support for further cutbacks in principal, stressing a job guarantee until at
least 2025 remains in place with any job reductions based on voluntary
agreements. He also urged a draft labour pact on retraining employees for
software and digital operations, Osterloh told Bloomberg in an emailed
statement. For this year, the VW nameplate targets revenue growth of as
much as 5% and an operating return on sales between 4% and 5%. It will boost
investment in future technology to €19bn through 2023, an increase of €8bn. VW will start producing the first model of its all-electric
ID car range toward the end of this year. Order books for the electric ID
hatchback open on May 8 and sales chief Juergen Stackmann said feedback from
dealers is so strong that the model might be sold out before its official
presentation in September. "Our goal is to become the world’s number one in
e-mobility by 2025," Brandstaetter said. The brand plans to bring to
market more than 20 vehicles based on the ID’s fully-electric underpinnings and
still intends to sell at least 1 million purely battery-powered vehicles by
2025, he said. To generate the funds needed for the electric-car
development, VW will introduce more SUVs like the compact T-Cross this year as
well as the Tharu and Tayron models in China.