Oil in New York rose to the highest level this year after OPEC and its partners 
agreed to go beyond their pledged supply curbs in the coming months. Futures gained as much as 0.8% after advancing 1% on 
Monday. A committee of the OPEC+ group reaffirmed at a meeting in Baku, 
Azerbaijan that it will continue production cuts until at least June. 
Saudi Arabian Energy Minister 

Khalid Al-Falih said oil market fundamentals have “significantly 
improved but more needs to be done.” “Commitments to broader, deeper cuts would virtually guarantee a 
tighter oil market through the second half, with fewer bearish trends on
 the horizon,” Citigroup Inc. analysts including 

Ed Morse wrote in a report. Oil has rallied about 30% this year as the Organisation of 
Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies reduced production to avert
 a global glut on the back of record-high US output. American 
sanctions continue to squeeze supplies from 
Iran and Venezuela. West Texas Intermediate for April delivery traded at $59.39 a barrel on 
the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 30 cents, at 8:56 a.m. local time. 
The contract rose 57 cents to $59.09 on Monday, the highest close since 
Nov. 12. Brent for May settlement gained 41 cents to $67.95 a barrel on the 
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, after increasing 38 cents on 
Monday. The global benchmark crude traded at an $8.28 

premium to WTI for the same month. April meeting The OPEC+ committee on Monday recommended canceling a planned 
ministerial 
meeting in April, saying it would be too soon to determine whether the 
output cuts should continue into the second half of the year. The change
 in timing, which still needs to be agreed by the wider coalition, means
 the group probably won’t decide on an extension until late June, just 
days before they expire. Russian Energy Minister 

Alexander Novak said current prices are acceptable to both consumers and
 producers and that it will take a 
wait and see approach on the supply curbs. While there’s general support
 within OPEC for an extension, with members including Iraq voicing 
support behind closed doors, Novak remains opposed, said a delegate, who
 asked not to be named because the talks are private. Meanwhile, nationwide crude inventories in the US are forecast to 
have risen by 2 million barrels in the week to March 15, according to a 
Bloomberg 

survey of analysts before government data due on Wednesday. 