Sugary drinks have joined the sin list,
following proposals for a tax on sugar in 2016 which officially came in to
effect on April 01, 2018. This makes SA the first African country to impose a
tax on sugary drinks. Sin taxes are generally understood to
be a tax on substances and consumption goods that have a negative impact on
society and individuals. In the case of sugar tax, a World Health Organisation report in 2016 argued that 28.3% of South Africans are obese – giving SA the
dubious distinction of being the most obese country in Sub-Saharan Africa,
distantly followed by Botswana, with 18.9% of their population being obese. The sugar tax is therefore targeted at
sugary beverages and is called the Health Promotion Levy, to be administered by
SARS, in support of department of health initiatives towards a healthier
population. Obesity statistics in South Africa
have been getting worse by the year; this alongside frightening sugar
consumption trends among children. The National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey found that 66% of learners buy sugary drinks at least twice
a week, consuming 40g more sugar than the recommended maximum daily limit for
children. Is it
working? The 2018/2019 tax year Health Promotion
Levy was recorded at R2.4bn, against an initial budget of R1.7bn. The empirical findings on the efficacy
of sin taxes are conflicting. Those against it suggest that the policy is both
regressive and contradictory. If its purpose is to increase tax
revenue and reduce demand for sin goods, they argue, then if it works, tax
revenue is lower and output – i.e.
GDP contribution – is lower. One would therefore need to assume that tax
revenue is secondary to the effect on demand on order for this policy not to be
contradictory, as those in opposition suggest. The latter version is more believable,
as government only collects an approximate 3% of total budget revenue from sin
taxes. It is, of course, unambiguous that
higher intake of sugary beverages increases the risk of weight gain and certain
non-communicable diseases like Type II diabetes, but what does taxation do for
consumption? Taxation,
consumption A EuroMonitor 2016 report found that
higher taxation on sugary drinks did, in fact, reduce consumption through two
channels. The first is the income effect – higher prices means we are able to
buy less with the financial resources that we have. The second is the substitution effect
– a more expensive sugary drink increases the likelihood of consuming a less
expensive drink, thereby substituting one for another. The corporate
factor Corporates typically respond by citing
potential job losses, as opposed to interrogating the merits of the proposed
policy amendments and providing impactful insights on the most efficient course
for implementation – particularly given the risks associated with consuming
sugary drinks. (Imagine vehicle makers absolutely diverted the conversation
about carbon footprints, to purely a conversation just about potential jobs
loses if they moved towards greener automotive vehicles.) According to the South African Sugar
Association, the sugar industry provides 72 000 direct jobs and approximately
350 000 indirect jobs. Beverage SA has suggested as many as 47
800 jobs could be lost due to the sugar tax; the National Treasury
Socio-Economic Study, on the other hand, suggests job losses attributable to
the sugar tax would be as low as 1 475. The consumer
factor A Coca-Cola annual review found South
Africa to be in the top ten consumers per capita of Coca-Cola products. In addition, in a 2017 study by Wits and
UCT, lead author Nick Stacey found that between 2010 and 2014, the consumption
of sport and energy drinks rose from 98 million litres to 168 million litres -
the highest sales volume growth globally. The sugar levy is a standardised 2.1
cents per gram of sugar content that exceeds 4g per 100ml – and fruit juices
are exempt. This suggests that a can of Fanta Grape, which contains an
approximate 10.5 grams per 100ml, would be taxed an approximate 80 cents more,
which the producing company would most certainly pass on to consumers. Some empirical evidence found a 6%
decrease in consumption of sugary beverages and a 4% increase in bottled water purchases
in the first year of the introduction of a sugary tax (Colechero et al, 2016b).
In Mexico, sugary drinks consumption decreased by an average of 7.6% over two
years following the introduction of a sugary drinks tax, and water consumption
increased by 10%. South
African public hospitals are said to be receiving more 25 000 patients for
hypertension and more than 10 000 new diabetic patients each month. Interestingly,
one aspect of the impact of Mexico's sugar tax is that consumption decreased
the most amongst the poorest households - the very households who would have
less access to quality healthcare. If
this is anything to go by, we can hope the same materialises in South Africa,
improving the health and longevity prospects for particularly the most
financially vulnerable groups in the country. Sifiso Skenjana is a Financial Economist at AFRA Consultants. He is an economic and
investment research specialist and is working on his PhD.