The Sagarmatha Technologies business case raised red flags when
the company was making its funding proposal to the PIC, the inquiry into the state-owned
asset manager has heard. Sagarmatha – which had been intended to unite the various
groups in businessman Iqbal Survé's media empire under one technology and media
umbrella – had approached the PIC for funding, prior to its
failed listing on the JSE in 2018. Lebohang Molebatsi, General Manager for Listed Equities,
said the first thing that struck him about the proposal was that another
company linked to Sekunjalo Group was looking to list soon after AYO Technology
Solutions, and that the capital raised was to facilitate the purchase of
Independent Media. "Although I was not aware of the details around the
funding of Independent Media, I knew that the PIC had extended a loan to that
company," said Molebatsi. "The exposure to a print company that was loss-making
made the Sagarmatha opportunity not attractive," Molebatsi said. In April 2018, the JSE cancelled Sagarmatha’s listing,
saying the company had not submitted its annual financial statements to the
Companies and Intellectual Property Commission in time for the listing to go
ahead. Sagarmatha was hoping to raise up to R7.5bn in the placement
of 189 million of its 1.2 billion shares. Molebatsi said engagements with Sagarmatha revealed that its
valuation was significantly lower than their initial public offering (IPO), but
the company was not willing to lower their expectations. Inflated share price He told the commission that a fair value was R7.06, compared
to the IPO asking price of R39.62 per share. The PIC deal team had submitted a
request for the investment committee to approve the PIC participation in the
Sagarmatha IPO at R7.06. Sagarmatha was also aiming to buy all the shares in
Sekunjalo Independent Media, the holding company that owns a 55% stake in
newspaper publisher Independent Media, which in turn owns the Cape Times, the
Star and other newspapers. Molebatsi said the deal team was further concerned that cash
raised from the IPO would be used to buy Independent Media shares from the PIC. "This would effect mean that the exit of PIC would be
funded by the PIC," he said. 