 This
is according to Wesgro, the official tourism, trade and investment promotion
agency for Cape Town and the Western Cape. The
United Kingdom (UK) was the Western Cape's second largest export market in 2017,
after Namibia. The UK is also South Africa's 8th largest export market. The UK was also the number one
source of foreign direct investment into the Western Cape and the number one
source of foreign tourists in 2017. Depending
on how this week in the British Parliament plays out, there could be various consequences
for the Western Cape's goods – predominantly agricultural products – being exported
to the UK. Wesgro
says the SA Parliament may be called upon this week to ratify a new trade
agreement between the UK and the Southern African Customs Union plus Mozambique
(SACU+M). The governments of the SACU+M countries have been negotiating an
agreement with the UK to ensure trade continuity upon the UK's exit from the
EU. According to Wesgro, this
agreement is expected to largely be a replication of SA's Economic Partnership
Agreement (EPA) with the EU. No-deal Brexit Under a no-deal Brexit, there are
two scenarios for South Africa, Wesgro says: a roll-over agreement with the UK
or no roll-over agreement. Should the SACU+M –UK Agreement
be in place in time for the 29 March deadline - that is signed and ratified -
then SA goods are assured of having preferential access to the UK market the
day after Brexit. If the agreement is not in place
in time, then South African goods will also face most favoured nation (MFN)
tariffs upon entry into the UK market in the case of a no-deal Brexit. The UK
is yet to publish its post-Brexit MFN tariff rates. Deadline delay The third scenario, according to
Wesgro, is a delay of the deadline and a return to the drawing board. "This will happen in the
event that the UK prime minister's deal is rejected, that a no-deal Brexit is
rejected, and the British Parliament votes for an extension of the 29 March
deadline. This will mean extending the uncertainty of what Brexit will look
like, and potentially even whether it will happen," said Wesgro. "There is one scenario, in
the short term, where EU goods to the UK could face higher tariffs than South
African goods. This would be in the case of no-deal Brexit but a roll-over
agreement between South Africa and the UK." In this case there would,
however, still be major disruptions to many SA exports. Goods at stake A large number of SA goods
destined for the UK are shipped through Rotterdam or other European ports, and
these products will get caught up in border disruptions on its way to the UK. Similarly,
many SA exports destined for mainland Europe are transported through the UK. The
Western Cape's top exports to the UK in 2017 were: