Zimbabwe’s currency devaluation last week has led to a more realistic
 exchange rate, yet thin trading implies the new official interbank 
market isn’t as free as officials suggested. The central bank announced on February 20 that its quasi-currencies - 
bond notes and their electronic equivalent - would no longer be valued 
at parity to the dollar and would be traded on an official interbank 
market. Since then, the bond notes, now known as RTGS dollars, have weakened 
to 2.5 against the greenback, while the black market rate has 
appreciated almost 9% to 3.36 per dollar, according to 
marketwatch.co.zw, a website run by financial analysts in Harare. The 
tight trading band on the interbank market - rates have ranged between 
2.5001 to 2.5042 this week - indicates trading isn’t totally free. The 
RBZ seems to be the only supplier of dollars, with just 
$7.7m traded as of Thursday, a person familiar with the matter 
said. There’s also been some improvement, again modest, with equities. The dollar squeeze roiled the stock market, with locals piling into 
it to hedge against inflation, which is officially 57% but may be
 as high as 
270 percent, according to 

Steve H. Hanke, a professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins 
University in Baltimore. That caused foreign investors such as Cape 
Town-based Allan Gray - which struggle to get their money out of 
the country because of capital controls - to write down their holdings 
to more realistic levels. They measure how out of whack prices are by 
taking the difference between the Harare and London shares of Old Mutual, Africa’s largest insurer. The Harare stock has sunk 18% this week to 

$7.50, which in Zimbabwe’s skewed markets is a sign that the liquidity 
crisis is easing. It’s now 4.5 times the price of that in London, when 
converted to dollars, down from 6.3 in January. Investors won’t be confident the foreign-exchange crisis is over 
until Zimbabwe’s formal and informal currency rates and the so-called 
Old Mutual implied rate all converge. 