Seven emerging security and risk management trends that will impact security, privacy and risk leaders in the longer term have been identified by research and advisory company Gartner. The research and advisory company is also a member of the S&P 500. These trends are expected to have broad industry impact and significant potential for disruption. The top-7 trends are: Risk appetite statements are becoming linked to business outcomes As IT strategies become more closely aligned with business goals, the ability for security and risk management (SRM) leaders to effectively present security matters to key business decision makers gains importance. Create simple, practical and pragmatic risk appetite statements that are linked to business goals and relevant to board-level decisions. Security operations centres are being implemented with a focus on threat detection and response The shift in security investments from threat prevention to threat detection requires an investment in security operations centres (SOCs) as the complexity and frequency of security alerts grow. The need for SRM leaders to build or outsource a SOC that integrates threat intelligence, consolidates security alerts and automates response cannot be overstated. Data security governance frameworks will prioritise data security investments Data security is a complex issue that cannot be solved without a strong understanding of the data itself, the context in which the data is created and used, and how it is subject to regulation. Rather than acquiring data protection products and trying to adapt them to suit the business need, leading organisations are starting to address data security through a data security governance framework (DSGF). Passwordless authentication is achieving market traction Passwordless authentication, such as Touch ID on smartphones, is starting to achieve real market traction. The technology is being increasingly deployed in enterprise applications for consumers and employees, as there is ample supply and demand for it. Security product vendors are increasingly offering premium skills and training services The number of unfilled cyber-security roles is expected to grow from 1 million in 2018 to 1.5 million by the end of 2020, according to Gartner.While advancements in artificial intelligence and automation certainly reduce the need for humans to analyse standard security alerts, sensitive and complex alerts require the human eye. Investments being made in cloud security competencies as a mainstream computing platform The shift to cloud means stretching security teams thin, as talent may be unavailable and organisations are simply not prepared for it. Gartner estimates that the majority of cloud security failures will be the fault of the customers through 2023. Increasing presence of Gartner's CARTA in traditional security markets A key component to CARTA is to continuously assess risk and trust even after access is extended. Email and network security are two examples of security domains where solutions increasingly focus on detecting anomalies even after users and devices are authenticated.