Richemont announced on Friday that it bought a 100-year old
Italian jewellery-maker from the Chinese conglomerate Gangtai Group. The Milan-based Buccelatti is known for its traditional, handcrafted
gold jewellery, using techniques dating back to the Renaissance. Five years
ago, it also revealed the
world’s most expensive iPad and iPhone covers, made with gold and diamonds and
sold for $485,000 (R7.3m at current exchange rates) and
$208,000 (R3.1m) respectively. The company’s products are primarily
distributed in Europe and the US.  The Chinese conglomerate Gangtai
bought Buccellati almost three years ago and proceeded to expand its presence in the Chinese market. It opened a flagship Buccellati store in a large Shanghai mall,
and also established a store in Beijing. It wanted to open more than 80 new shops. But according to a report in the luxury goods publication
Jing Daily, Buccellati suffered losses last year, compounding Gangtai financial
problems, which saw it default
on bond payments last year. Gangtai, which
is one of the largest gold jewellery distributors in China and owns an online
jewellery retailer, also has finance and health interests. "We are extremely glad to have successfully contributed
to the introduction of the prestigious Buccellati brand in the Greater China
market, strengthening Buccellati's identity and enhancing all of the elements
which make it one of the best-known brands worldwide in the fine jewellery
sector,” Xu Jiangang, founder of Gangtai, said in a statement on Friday. “We
are now honoured and proud that Richemont will continue the journey.” Richemont
didn’t confirm the price it paid for the Buccellati, but said the deal won’t
have a material
financial impact on its results for the current year. Chairman Johann Rupert said
Buccellati is one of the few jewellery-makers that is complementary to Richemont’s
existing jewellery Maisons, “in terms of style, origins and craftsmanship”. "Buccellati meets the needs of today's customers who are looking for creative
jewellery, with a highly distinctive style," Rupert said.