Apple is fighting the world’s biggest tax case in a
quiet courtroom this week, trying to rein in the European Union’s powerful
antitrust chief ahead of a potential new crackdown on internet giants. The iPhone maker can tell the EU General Court in
Luxembourg that it’s the world’s biggest taxpayer. But that’s not enough for EU
Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, who said in a 2016 ruling that
Apple’s tax deals with Ireland allowed the company to pay far less than other
businesses. The court must now weigh whether regulators were right to levy a
record 13bn-euro (over R205bn) tax bill. Apple’s haggling over tax comes after its market
valuation hit $1.02trn (nearly R15trn) last week on the back of a new
aggressive pricing strategy that may stoke demand for some smartphones and
watches. The company’s huge revenue - and those of other technology firms -
have attracted close scrutiny in Europe, focusing on complicated company
structures for transferring profits generated from intellectual property. A court ruling, likely to take months, could empower
or halt Vestager’s tax probes, which are now centering on fiscal deals done by
Amazon and Alphabet. She’s also been tasked with coming up with a "fair
European tax" by the end of 2020 if global efforts to reform digital
taxation don’t make progress. "Politically, this will have very big
consequences," said Sven Giegold, a Green member of the European
Parliament. "If Apple wins this case, the calls for tax harmonization in
Europe will take on a different dynamic, you can count on that." Silicon Valley’s worst enemy returns with even more
power Vestager showed her determination to fight the tax
cases to the end by opening new probes into 39 companies’ tax deals with
Belgium on Monday. The move addresses criticism by the same court handling the
Apple challenge. A February judgment threw out her 2016 order for them to pay
back about 800 million euros. At the same time she’s pushing for "fair
international tax rules so that digitization doesn’t allow companies to avoid
paying their fair share of tax," according to a speech to German
ambassadors last month. She urged them to use "our influence to build an
international environment that helps us reach our goals" in talks on a new
global agreement to tax technology firms. Apple’s fury at its 2016 EU order saw Chief
Executive Officer Tim Cook blasting the EU move as "total political crap."
The company’s legal challenge claims the EU wrongly targeted profits that
should be taxed in the US and "retroactively changed the rules" on
how global authorities calculate what’s owed to them. 'She's suing all our
companies' The US Treasury weighed in too, saying the EU was
making itself a "supra-national tax authority" that could threaten
global tax reform efforts. President Donald Trump hasn’t been silent either,
saying Vestager "hates the United States" because "she’s suing
all our companies." "There is a lot at stake given the
high-profile nature of the case, as well as the concerns that have been raised
from the US Treasury that the investigations risk undermining the international
tax system," said Nicole Robins, a partner at economics consultancy Oxera
in Brussels. Apple declined to comment ahead of the hearing,
referring to previous statements. The European Commission also declined to
comment. Ireland said it "profoundly" disagreed with the EU’s
findings. Richard Murphy, a professor at London’s City
University, said the EU’s case "is about making clear that no company
should be beyond the geographic limits of tax law." "Selective attempts to get round the law -
which is what tax avoidance is - are unacceptable when companies seek the
protection and support of that same law" in the rest of their business,"
Murphy said. Vestager has also fined Google some $9bn. She’s
ordered Amazon to pay back taxes - a mere 250m euros - and is probing Nike’s
tax affairs and looking into Google’s taxation in Ireland. The first hints of how the Apple case may turn out
will come from a pair of rulings scheduled for September 24. Frightful five The General Court will rule on whether the EU was
right to demand unpaid taxes from Starbucks and a Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV
unit. Those judgments could set an important precedent on how far the EU can
question tax decisions national governments make on how companies should be
treated. "It’s very clear that the largest companies in
the world - the frightful five I call them - are hardly paying taxes,"
said Paul Tang, a socialist lawmaker at the European Parliament. "Cases
like these, Amazon in Luxembourg or Apple in Ireland, started to build public
and political pressure" for tax reform in Europe. Apple’s $38bn US taxes leave EU nemesis unmoved The legal battles may go on for a few years more.
The General Court rulings can be appealed once more to the EU’s highest
tribunal, the EU Court of Justice. Meanwhile, Apple’s back taxes - 14.3bn euros
including interest - sit in an escrow account and can’t be paid to Ireland
until the final legal challenges are exhausted. For Alex Cobham, chief executive of the Tax Justice
Network campaign group, the issue is already in the past and "it’s not
even the biggest tax scandal that Apple has" after reports on other
structures it may use. Tax reforms under discussion "will ensure much
closer alignment of taxable profits and the real economic activity"
generated by them.