Below, reproduced in full, is a letter SARS Commissioner Edward Kieswetter sent to staff in response to gender-based violence and violence in general in SA. --- I write to you
as a son, a brother, a husband, a father and a grandfather. I write with great
sadness - sadness for our loved ones, sadness for all women, mothers, sisters,
aunts and young girls in our patriarchal society. I write with a
sense of shame – shame that as a society we are not able to give an assurance
to our young children that we will take proper care of them. Shame that simply
to be a woman or a child in our country, is to be at risk of violence and
abuse. Shame that we cannot prevent innocent young children from falling into
pit latrine toilets and suffering a cruel death, being denied the opportunity
of a joyous life. We are a society
at war with ourselves. To deny this is to be complicit and part of the problem.
To be silent renders us impotent, unable and unwilling to solve this
inexcusable character of South Africa. We do not fight for each other, we fight
with each other. More than 300 years of oppression and disenfranchisement has
turned us into an "us vs. them" society. We have to unlearn that and learn what
it means to be South African. We conveniently
refer to the attack on women as Gender-Based Violence. This is too vague, too
euphemistic, and too simplistic. We should call it for what it is. It is the
despicable and deplorable violent attacks by men on women, girls and babies. It
is more appropriate to refer to it as Male-Perpetrated Violence. Women should not
have to protect themselves from men. They should feel safe and secure with us
as men. They have the right to feel safe. Two nights ago one of our colleague’s
daughter, a 26-year-old woman, on her return from work, was violently attacked
by a coward of a man who preyed on a defenceless woman. Like other monsters, he
is still walking free and ready to repeat his ghastly act, whilst she has to
deal with the immense trauma and the risk of permanent damage to her hand and
her self-esteem. How many more
women, young girls and young children must live with this constant fear of
being attacked and violated? The recent
attack on fellow Africans is conveniently referred to as xenophobia. But it is
much more than that; it is an inhumane and debased act of criminality. It says
more about us as a society, than about our brothers and sisters whom we attack.
Of course, underlying this indefensible behavior is the fact that many of our
own still experience abject poverty and unemployment in the face growing
inequality. These stubborn
remnants of the oppressive system of apartheid are in themselves an act of
violence against our own people. As long as the material conditions of fellow
South Africans remain unchanged and they do not share in the benefits of
democracy we cannot feel safe. This injustice, which is still largely borne by
black people, especially women and children, remains a threat to justice for
all of us. Higher walls and gated communities give us a false sense of safety,
and are unsustainable. The anger and impatience, 26 years into our democracy,
is understandable, it truly is an indictment on all of us. The latest
report on crime highlights an increase in violent crime and sexual offenses. It
suggest as many commentators have remarked, we are a country at war with itself. I also write as
the Commissioner of the South African Revenue Service. In my first letter on May 1, 2019, I committed, among other matters, "to work tirelessly to root out
any form of abuse, including racism and sexism" and invited you to hold
ourselves and each other "to be respectful to your co-workers, treating them
the way you wish to be treated; to be an activist against gender-based and
other forms of abuse" and "to embrace the racial, cultural, religious, sexual
orientation and other aspects of our rich diversity". I now appeal
that we radically step up our internal conversation to raise awareness and
shape the desired behavior to counter these forms of violence that
characterises us. As an
organisation, SARS is a microcosm of our society. The criticism of society is
therefore also a criticism of us. We have to confront ourselves with the
hard question of whether we are contributing to or combatting the violence we
see in society. In this regard, I would like to initiate a process of
self-reflection on our own values, policies and practices. We should also step
up our efforts to understand both the level of violence, especially against
women, and demonstrate the behavior we expect of others. As specific
actions I propose the following: I have requested the Communication division to
     establish a confidential portal that offers support and material on
     women abuse and empowerment; and I have assigned a senior representative to
     support my office and be available to anyone who wishes to draw attention
     or report specific instances of sexual abuse and harassment. Specific details for the latter two items will be
     communicated during the course of next week. I appeal to all
our male colleagues to step up and help to create an environment wherein our
women feel safe. As men we need to speak out. Edward Kieswetter is Commissioner of the South African Revenue Service. Views expressed are his own.