News
broke recently of senior executives at the South African Broadcasting
Corporation reportedly threatening the public broadcaster with resignations over
alleged interference by board members. The
Zondo Commission of Inquiry, for its part, also subsequently heard allegations
of interference by the board in the work of the executive management team. The
contest for areas of responsibility between directors of companies and
executives is not uncommon, especially in state-owned entities, which often
have a dual mandate of profit making and social or developmental role – as is
the case with the SABC. Where
allegations of interference by directors are raised, it is often the case that
the affected directors will contend that what executives perceive as
interference is a misconception of directors discharging their fiduciary
responsibilities and their duty to manage and direct the affairs of the company. What the law says From a
legal point of view, Section 66 of the Companies Act provides that the business
and affairs of any company must be managed by, or under, the directions of its
board; which has the authority to exercise all of the powers and perform any of
the functions of the company, except to the extent that the Companies Act – or
such company's constitution (memorandum of incorporation) provides otherwise. Given
this provision of the Companies Act, directors are within their rights to
insist that they be responsible for the management and direction of the affairs
of the company. In most
instances, the directors of the company's terms of appointment do not require
them to manage the day to day affairs of the company, as this would be impractical.
It is partly for this reason that good corporate governance dictates that
directors delegate their statutory obligation to manage and direct the affairs
of the company to selected individuals – who have the right skills and
experience to manage and direct the day-to-day affairs of the company. It is a
well-established principle of our law that when a person with authority delegates
such authority to another, such delegation does not divest the originally
authorised person of such powers. Accountability, good governance and trust Where
the board has delegated responsibilities to a managing director or executive,
the directors should be content that the person appointed will do their job
diligently, and in the best interests of the company. This is simply the result
of good corporate governance, pragmatism and the need for good order, insofar
as management of companies is concerned. It is undesirable that directors
should at a whim strip the delegated powers from the managing director or chief
executive, as doing so will blur the lines of responsibility, and may lead to a
situation where no-one can be held accountable for the actions that they take. It is
no wonder that the King Report on Corporate Governance, and similar
international instruments, demand it as a matter of good corporate governance
that the roles of the directors and the executives should be clearly defined
and separated. Other legislation The
SABC is also governed by the Public Finance Management Act No 1 of 1999 (PFMA).
Although it can be argued that the PFMA was envisaged by the Constitution to
regulate financial management of state-owned entities, government departments
and constitutional entities, Section 50 of the PFMA also half-heartedly
regulates the fiduciary duties and conduct of directors or board members of
state-owned entities. In this
regard, Section 50(1)(d) – somewhat out of sync with the common law on the
directors’ duties and the Companies Act – provides that boards of state-owned
entities must seek, within their sphere of influence, to prevent any prejudice
the financial interests of the state. The
specific reference to the sphere of influence in this section of the PFMA seems
motivated by the acknowledgement that directors of state-owned entities are not
to be involved in all aspects of managing and directing the affairs of such
entities – notwithstanding that they have the legal powers to do so. So what is undue influence? It is
often a contentious matter between directors and executives of companies, let
alone state-owned companies, when the conduct of directors amounts to undue
interference. The
classic solution has been the well-established understanding that non-executive
directors are not to be involved in the day to day affairs of the company. Further,
when senior executives are appointed often at a high cost to the company, they
are so appointed for their skills and experience. It will
serve the boards of state-owned entities well to understand that directors have
no business involving themselves in tasks that a highly paid chief executive or
chief financial officer is hired to do. The urge to participate in the minutiae
of the company’s affairs by directors is unwarranted and can result in
conflict. Allowing
executives to discharge responsibilities on behalf of the organisation does not
strip directors of their legal authority to manage and direct the affairs of
the company as envisaged in the Companies Act and the PFMA in the case of state-owned
entities. More
often than not, where a complaint of interference manifests, it is either lack
of experience on the part of directors, and/or executives. In some instances,
the source of differences maybe personality clashes. Ultimately,
a healthy tension between the board and executives is what all involved should
strive for. Hostile relations do not auger well for good governance. Matodzi
Ratshimbilani is an attorney and director of Tshisevhe Gwina Ratshimbilani
Inc. Views expressed are his own.