Meet the Perennials; an evergreen generation who
remain curious and relevant despite their advancing age. They are energetic, switched on and most importantly, employable. Perennials are born between 1930 and 1950, and some would say that they incorporate the best of the boomer traits
(hard-working, value-based), and those of millennials (curious, tech-savvy).
Perennials, unlike younger generations, tend to focus on a company's values and
will often be more loyal to a business that matches their own. While a
millennial will jump from company to company to satisfy intellectual curiosity,
a Perennial may stick around longer because they just like the people they work
with. Perennials also pride themselves on being savvy, from pop culture through
to the latest gadgets. You're going to be hard-pressed to find the purported
knowledge gap between Perennials and Millennials. Perennials are challenging the myth of 'old age'. The idea that we all have a sell-by date is quickly becoming an
old-fashioned notion. A recent article in MIT Technology Review has shone a
spotlight on the fact that the idea of old age, the body running out of
vitality (a mysterious, make-believe energy), is a piece of 19th century
science that has long since been debunked. While there may be some physical
deterioration as we age, modern humans tend to stay quite healthy well into
their twilight years. Historically, when corporate masters
wanted to crack the whip, they found that getting rid of their older employees
created a surge of productivity inducing fear down the line. In order to
justify these retirements, the idea of the aged (and therefore useless) worker
was introduced. But times have changed. The digital age
has brought with it instant access to information, communication, productivity
tools, and a host of other benefits that are useful for both young and old. The
older generation is adopting and using these technologies with a degree of ease
that is both surprising and helping to keep them relevant in the workplace. As
an example, in the Netherlands, at least 75% of Perennials are active on
Facebook. Recently, the advertising industry has
also been shifting away from staff complements entirely made up of younger
minds. The industry is currently undergoing massive changes and the experience
that an older staff member brings to the table has become invaluable. Fighting ageism But it isn't all good news. The older
generation is facing many challenges in their re-entry to the workplace. In
many countries, the number of newly retired people attempting to return to the
workplace has grown, with some countries reporting a 20% increase in older job
seekers. Many of these job seekers are struggling to find employment for one
reason alone, ageism. Leave your age off of your CV, you're more likely to get
an interview. In a world that glamorises youth, it has become difficult to
demonstrate your value past a certain age. In South Africa, ageism is illegal.
It still happens, but fortunately unions and/or the CCMA will gladly represent
an older worker, should they feel discriminated against. Another challenge is that Silicon Valley
is full of 25-year-olds solving problems for other 25-year-olds. Ever notice
how technology aimed at the youth is slick, black, and sexy, while technology
aimed at the aged is beige and bulky? While most Perennials make adopting new
workplace technologies a priority, they often find that features they would
find useful are just not present, simply because they are left out of the tech
development cycle. The fact is, Perennials are a great
addition to any workplace. The reality is that the concept of 'old age' is
fading away, and society has to catch up fast. We have seen that in countries
with more established economies (like Japan), older people far outnumber the
youth. With that in mind, it is in our best interest to start working on
legislation, processes, and technologies that will facilitate our older workers
while we reap the benefits of their innate loyalty and experience. The Perennial in a business is a secret
weapon. There is so much we can learn from a generation that has made their
mistakes. History repeats itself and those who choose to ignore the benefits of
engaging with and learning from those who have been there and done that are
simply foolish business leaders. Andrew Robinson is co-founder and executive director of
SiSebenza. Views expressed are his own.  