President
Cyril Ramaphosa upped the game when he put worker ownership of companies on the
table at the congress of the SA Clothing and Textile Workers Union last week. Ramaphosa
told members of Sactwu that securing co-ownership was important to give workers
a say in industries, and to prevent the increasing conflict that has sparked a wave of strikes. Banking union Sasbo was on Thursday interdicted from proceeding with what would have been the biggest banking strike in 99 years, and which would have taken labour action decisively into the services industry. The idea
of workers as owners is gaining currency as the model of twenty-first-century
capitalism comes under increasing scrutiny. In his new
book Capital and Ideology, economist Thomas Piketty raises worker ownership
as a means of redistributing wealth. Ramaphosa has been a long-time
supporter of the idea, and raised the policy option for the first time since
becoming being elected into office just over 100 days ago. Piketty recently said worker
ownership would allow "new social groups to become owners and shareholders". While
employee share ownership schemes are touted in black empowerment laws as a more
legitimate form of black economic empowerment than the crony deals that
characterised the first era of BEE, they have not been successful. Journalist Carol Paton, writing in Business Day about mining sector deals, noted
that workers had not made significant gains. But the
worker ownership now on the table is different – Ramaphosa suggested a more
German model of ownership, where workers co-determine corporate strategy. It is a
method favoured by both the ruling African National Congress and the official opposition the Democratic Alliance. In its
election manifesto ahead of the May 2019 national election, the ANC
promised to "introduce legislation for the extension of company ownership
to a broad base of workers through an employee ownership scheme and similar
arrange arrangements to supplement workers’ incomes and build greater
partnerships between workers and owners to build these businesses,"
according to its manifesto. "Social partners (government, labour and business) will put
together the minimum thresholds and conditionalities to govern the
establishment of worker-ownership funds, paving the way to empower millions of
workers across the economy." The ANC said in its manifesto that the
government would provide public assistance (which means state funding) to help
workers buy shares. With a depleted fiscus, the assistance is unlikely in
the short term, but the idea is now on the table.