Zimbabwe says its land ownership rights will no longer take race
into account as the southern African country continues to craft policies that
seek to depart from those set under the Robert Mugabe regime. The late Mugabe, through the fast track land reform
programme, had barred white farmers, with exception of a connected few, from
land ownership in the country. He also cautioned newly re-settled black Zimbabweans - who
were allegedly accommodating former white commercial farmers who lost their
properties during the land reforms, and were now entering into farming
contracts with displaced white farmers - that they risked losing their land to
government. But the new administration, led by his former deputy
President Emmerson Mnangagwa, is now introducing change. In a National Investment Policy, launched by Mnangagwa on August
29, 2019, farm land leases will be given to willing investors regardless of
race. Investors into agriculture, under the new National
Investment Policy, are guaranteed security of tenure, with access to land through
issuance of new 99-year leases - "now de-racialised", reads the NIP
in part. The new policy also says it recognises Bilateral Investment
Treaties and will engage "investors where violations were made with
regards to land...with a view to reaching amicable settlements." "Accordingly the Government of Zimbabwe will respect
and honour its obligations under various Bilateral Investment Treaties,"
reads the NIP. This is in addition to the southern African country having
agreed to compensate farmers who lost their investments following land
distribution. To ensure equitable compensation, a Special Ad-Hoc Tribunal,
drawing from international best practice, will guide the Government of Zimbabwe
in determining, among other considerations, the value of payable compensation
and modalities of payment. Further, the Zimbabwe Government says it commits to "protection
of all investments from expropriation, or from measures that will have a
similar effect."