Within
24 hours, South Africa has gone from witnessing utter lawlessness on the
streets of its financial capital to breathing a collective sigh of relief that
it’s GDP bounced back by 3.1% in the second quarter. The
juxtaposition of these two events – alongside the political theatre being
played out within the broader body politic – shows just how close the
country can come to a deeply distressing social meltdown or just how close we
could all be to an economic re-boot and better growth prospects for all. However,
we should not let ourselves be distracted by a quarter-on-quarter economic
revival – as welcome as it might be. The improvements in the domestic economy
statistically represent more of a consolidation with the lights on when
compared to the crisis of load-shedding in Q1’s disastrous period. When
compared year-on-year, the domestic economy is still only expanding at just
below 1% - far below the figure required to sustain job creation and provide
for an expanded citizenry. Ultimately, the low-level civil conflict that played
itself out in Jeppestown, Cleveland and other areas within Gauteng is far more
indicative of what to expect in South Africa than the one swallow doesn’t
make a summer bump in GDP. Technical
measurements of GDP bely the ten million unemployed – about the same number of
people as the entire unemployment figures of both the USA and Germany together.
Yes, those South Africans looting stores and intimidating (largely) foreign
citizens may have been criminals or might’ve acted spontaneously. Yet, the
mobs and looters also represent the abject failure of economic policy for more
than a decade to find a middle ground between the various ideological positions
so entrenched within the country that they stymie progress towards a clarity of
thinking and inhibit any kind of implementation and execution. To this
end, the ANC as the most powerful political force in the country since 1994,
has to take blame. Its own inability to analyse the confluence of economic
challenges and distil new solutions has left it bereft of policy cohesion. Debilitated
by power-plays, rising populism and patronage politics, the party has largely
failed to really dissect policy alternatives. Instead, its myopic vision has
resulted in it recoiling away from internal change and managing this shift
internally at successive policy conferences. Locked in position The
governing party has remained locked into its current position of supporting a
developmental state with the reins of power firmly vested in central control.
In part, the various Alliance elements barely tolerate private enterprise as a
‘necessary evil’, while attempting to maximise internal crony capitalistic
benefits from areas seen as ripe-for-the-picking. In
policy discussions over the past decade, this view has largely prevailed.
Anything that smacks of a greater role for the private sector is smacked down
or belittled and anyone even remotely supporting this notion is labelled a
sell-out and purveyor of the neo-liberal order. It has resulted in a stunted
debate, stymied at every corner and unable to break free into the realm of
compromise and public-private compromise. So, for
President Ramaphosa, still largely reeling from his inability to stamp out his
factionalised political enemies, economic policy remains an unresolved
headache. Seemingly impotent to lead, he has devolved the running to Finance
Minister Tito Mboweni and his new economic reform strategy document. To his
credit, Minister Mboweni has taken political risk. So much so, that he faces
the vilification from ANC sectors both factionalised politically and also more
established – like the Trade Unions. Faced
with a decade of non-policy making, Mboweni has limited choices for a
relatively quick fix. In the normal state-of-play, a political party would
formulate economic policy resolutions over successive party congresses, debate
these fully and then pass them to become part of policy. Indeed, the ANC has
done this on more populist issues like land expropriation and NHI. Even on
prescribed assets, the party has debated this and is open to its
implementation. But
Mboweni also finds that on the pragmatist side of the equation, the ANC is
silent. It cannot take any internal stand on disposing (or rationalising) of
state assets without the buy in from its Alliance partners. A weak president
cannot afford to alienate a core support base – the unions – by proposing that
tens of thousands over-staffed (and over-paid) Eskom staffers be laid off. All that
Minister Mboweni can do is therefore lob a grenade of a document into the
public discourse and attempt to change the narrative away from the ideological
straitjacket he currently is confined to. It’s pretty explosive policymaking
when you come to think of it – but it risks undermining his own party’s
internal policy procedures in the process. If you can get it right, you can
circumnavigate a decade of lost policy-formulation time. But, if you get it
wrong, you can undermine necessary change for even longer. The
problem for the ANC is that almost every economic policy choice is hotly
contested space. And it terms of the three key policy areas of spending cuts
(read austerity, stimulatory policy and regulatory reforms, each is a political
minefield of note. Even the NDP barely received broad buy in when it was
adopted in 2013 and largely was unimplementable as the Zuma years took its
toll. Mboweni’s current plan is an attempt to re-boot the NDP with additional
steps to modify the SOE model into a more efficient (and less State-centric)
vehicle. As the
mobs ran rampant through the streets of Johannesburg, the broader ANC Alliance
seemed caught off-guard by Mboweni’s initiative. The Unions and SACP lambasted
it while the ANC itself meekly called for greater input and discussion. The
President seemed largely silent. Clearly, networking such a crucial document at
such a critical moment in our country’s history requires much greater
networking if it is to remotely succeed in political buy-in. For
those opposed to the document – and those supportive, the threat of an
increasing low-level civil breakdown should be the real impetus to find a
compromise. There simply should not be a binary choice between those
broad-brushstroke terms of socialism versus capitalism. Failure Those on
the Left will need to swallow their pride and acknowledge that the leadership
of the state has largely failed in South Africa over the past decade. Indeed,
the state cannot be the job creator of the future lest it simply be a
quasi-employment agency offering little more than sheltered employment with its
commensurate inefficiencies and propensity for corruption – proved so clearly.
This means an acceptance that empowering business to be a key job creator
requires both regulatory and tax reforms to begin the long-haul of
incentivising investment. And,
those on the centre-right will need to accept that developmental priorities of
education, health, infrastructure/public investment and decent wages are
critical in an unequal society like ours. Equally, a simplistic call to
summarily reduce (without a credible alternative plan) the many thousands
‘over-employed’ in the state sector can lead to additional social distress and
be a further threat to any consumption-driven economy. Both
sides can agree on industrialisation, the enhancement of value-added services
and boosting manufacturing for a continent easing its own trade barriers. And
both sides should agree that boosting domestic consumption is critical to
spurring manufacturing output and its pipeline benefits. Both sides should be
able to agree that a credible state and conscious capitalism are an equal role
side-by side. It’s the escape clause for our current malaise. Failure
to accomplish this will result in more days of looting, plundering and
suffering as access to resources diminishes further. Business is surely ready
to play its part – but the ANC now has to act to become and Alliance of action
rather than one of paralysis. Daniel Silke
is a political analyst, author and keynote speaker. Views expressed are his own.