Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg's
Washington charm offensive appeared to ease tensions between the social media
giant and US lawmakers critical of its business practices. Most lawmakers described their meetings with the CEO as
productive even as they called for new regulations on tech companies that they
said would improve users' experiences and industry competition. "It was a positive and robust discussion on privacy,"
Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican, said Friday after his
meeting. "They committed to working with the Congress on a strong,
nationwide privacy law." In addition to Walden, Zuckerberg also met on Friday with
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Doug Collins, a Georgia Republican on
the Judiciary Committee. He sat down with House Intelligence Chairman Adam
Schiff, a California Democrat, and House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler, a
Democrat whose committee is investigating the technology industry. Facebook's Portal enters crowded streaming market Facebook has launched a new version of its Portal video device, entering the crowded TV-streaming market. It hopes its social side, with users able to watch a show and chat online, will set it apart. On Thursday, Zuckerberg met with President Donald Trump at
the White House, according to a Facebook spokesman. Trump's son-in-law and
senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was there along with Dan Scavino, the president's
social media director, Bloomberg reported. Trump later tweeted that it was a "nice
meeting." Zuckerberg spent the past three days defending Facebook's
practices to some of his harshest critics, who say the company isn't taking
strong enough action to prevent voter manipulation on the platform ahead of the
2020 presidential election. They also criticise the company's handling of user
data and treatment of conservative voices on its platform. On Friday, Facebook announced it had suspended "tens of
thousands" of third-party apps that were using the company's developer
tools as part of a review the company started following the Cambridge Analytica
privacy scandal last year. In response to the growing scrutiny of its platform,
Zuckerberg has called for adoption of baseline regulations governing privacy
and harmful content online. The prospects that a federal privacy law will pass before
the end of 2020 remain low, even though Republicans and Democrats alike say
they are negotiating terms of potential legislation. Antitrust panel Zuckerberg on Friday met with Nadler of New York as the
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee is investigating competition issues in the
technology industry. Last week, the panel sent a letter to Facebook seeking
information about its acquisitions as well as communications from Zuckerberg
and other executives. Democratic Representative David Cicilline, chairman of the
panel's antitrust subcommittee, said he had a "productive meeting"
with Zuckerberg. "It was an opportunity to reaffirm the bipartisan
nature of the investigation – the fact that the chairman and I and our
Republican colleagues are very united in this effort," Cicilline said. "Mr.
Zuckerberg made a commitment to cooperate with the investigation." 'A wall' A day earlier, Zuckerberg had a testier exchange with
Republican Senator Josh Hawley over his company's record on privacy and
safeguarding user data. Hawley said he told Zuckerberg that Facebook should be
subject to independent audits of its content reviews and that there should be "a
wall" between Facebook and its other platforms, and Zuckerberg said no. "I said to him, 'Prove that you are serious about data,
sell WhatsApp, and sell Instagram.' That's what they should do," Hawley
told reporters after a Thursday meeting. "I think it's safe to say he was
not receptive to those suggestions." Zuckerberg's visit to the capital also included a dinner on
Wednesday with Virginia Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the
Intelligence Committee, and Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat,
along with other lawmakers. The executive didn't appear to be meeting with government
officials conducting other inquiries. The Federal Trade Commission has opened
an antitrust probe of the company, and New York is leading a coalition of
states in a wide-ranging investigation of the social media giant. In July,
Facebook agreed to pay $5bn to settle FTC allegations it violated users'
privacy.