The eighth annual African Ports and Rail Evolution Forum - a trade exhibition and conference - will take place on October 15 and 16 at the Durban International Convention Centre. Attendees will gain access to more than 80 exhibitors displaying the latest products, services and technologies across seven dedicated product zones.  These zones include ports infrastructure and expansion; port operations; security and information technology; rolling stock and locomotives; rail infrastructure maintenance; maritime; and logistics. Visiting ports and rail professionals can also get to grips with the latest industry developments and upskill themselves via over 15 free-to-attend workshops. The conference will be opened by Nozipho Mdawe, acting CEO of Transnet National Ports Authority. In addition, there will be in excess of 30 speakers from around the globe, including Aadil Cajee, executive head of infrastructure of corporate and investment banking at Standard Bank; Benjamin Acolatse the deputy CEO of the Ghana Railway Development Authority; and Ousman Jobarteh, managing director of the Port Authority of Gambia. This year's theme is Accelerating Economic Growth in Africa through Cross-border Collaboration and Investment. Delegates will look at Africa's trade potential and new investment and partnership opportunities arising from the Africa Continental Free Trade Area Agreement, as well as other open border initiatives. They will also hear about forecasts for Africa's transport infrastructure and find out which infrastructure projects are currently open around the continent, where assistance is needed and how to become a leading partner in the development of Africa's multibillion-dollar transport industry. They will also hear from Africa's global counterparts on best practice. Another upcoming event is KZN Export Week, from October 14 to 18. KZN Export Week is an annual programme of Trade & Investment KwaZulu-Natal (TIKZN) developed to recognise, promote and assist with growing KwaZulu-Natal's export businesses along with industries throughout Africa and globally. Excellence will be awarded at the Women in Transport Awards on October 15 and at the Exporter of the Year Awards on October 17. Hosted by the eThekwini Municipality and Ministry of Transport, in partnership with Transnet National Ports Authority and Transnet Freight Rail, the African Ports and Rail Evolution Forum forms part of the Transport Evolution Event Series which will see similar events taking place in Qatar, Mozambique and Nigeria in the coming months. More information is available here. 