In vaping, the special relationship is coming
undone. While US President Donald Trump has vowed to "do
something very, very strong" after hundreds of reported cases of lung
illnesses related to electronic cigarettes, public health officials in the UK,
the biggest market in Europe for the products, endorse vaping as a way to wean
people off smoking. It’s the prevailing view across Europe, where
authorities are more sanguine because the ailments popping up in the US have
largely been linked to vaping liquids laced with THC, the psychoactive compound
in cannabis, which is off-limits in much of Europe. Use among European
teenagers is also much lower than in the US, as is the nicotine content in
popular vaping products. "If you’re a smoker and you have not stopped
smoking, try vaping," Martin Dockrell, head of tobacco issues at Public
Health England, said in an interview posted on
his Twitter feed this month. The government agency has repeatedly said vaping is 95%
less harmful than cigarettes. The response to the vaping crisis underlines a
deeper difference in the two regions’ approach to smoking alternatives. UK
health bodies are leading a push for acceptance of products such as Imperial
Brands Plc’s Blu and British American Tobacco Plc’s Vype as a way to get people
to quit smoking, which is linked to cancer, heart disease and other ailments.
Conversely in the US, which has seen countless tobacco lawsuits over the past
decades, cigarette alternatives are feared to be a possible gateway into
smoking. What aligns both regions is that smoking rates have
fallen, while vaping numbers have climbed. In the US, about 13% of the
population smoked cigarettes last year, down from some 18% in 2013, according
to Euromonitor International. In the UK, the rate has come down to 14% from
19%, while declines have been slower in countries like France and Germany. Biggest market The UK is Europe’s No. 1 vaping market, with 6.3%
of the adult population using such devices, but far fewer British teenagers
vape than their counterparts in the US About 1.6% of 11- to 18-year-olds said
they used e-cigarettes more than once a week, according to a Yougov survey
published by anti-smoking group Action on Smoking and Health in June. The
Health & Human Services Department said Wednesday that the proportion of
regular vapers among US high school students has risen to one in four, citing
preliminary data from a new survey. UK authorities said they received seven reports in
2019 of adverse reactions suspected to have been caused by vaping, with no
fatalities. Meanwhile, there have been 380 US reports in recent months about
the mysterious symptoms linked to the practice, including six deaths, according
to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vaping liquids that contain THC are hard to find in
Europe, which may explain why the EU hasn’t seen similar health scares as in
the US State health officials in New York have pointed to vitamin E acetate as
a likely culprit for the respiratory symptoms, as the substance has been found
in some products used to inhale THC. Europe’s effort to push cigarette smokers toward
vaping and heated tobacco devices is rooted in a public health approach
called harm reduction that
gained acceptance in the 1980s for prevention of HIV and other diseases among
sex workers and injecting drug users. The approach seeks to diminish the impact
of risky behaviors by promoting infection-blocking tools like clean needles and
condoms. The strategy contrasted with efforts like the "Just Say No"
anti-drug campaign championed by Nancy Reagan. "We are clear vaping is not without risks, but
compared with smoking tobacco it is far less harmful," said Rosanna
O’Connor, director of alcohol, drugs and tobacco at Public Health England. Tougher rules European authorities have combined their embrace of
e-cigarettes with tougher regulations - restricting marketing to children, for
example, and imposing lower limits on nicotine content - that have made the new
devices more acceptable to health officials. The UK prohibits vaping companies
from targeting teens. Real or fictitious characters that could appeal to youths
are banned, as are depictions of e-cigarette users who appear to be under 25. The European Union also has lower limits on nicotine
levels in e-cigarette fluid, permitting a maximum of 20 milligrams per millilitre,
compared with 59 milligrams per millilitre in
Juul Labs Inc.’s vape hits. In order to enter EU markets such as the UK, the US
company has had to dilute its nicotine liquids there. London-based BAT, which on Thursday announced 2 300 job cuts as
it repositions itself to focus on smoking substitutes, says it shares the US
Food and Drug Administration’s concerns that marketing of some flavoured vaping
products could appeal to children. "At the same time, it is hard to overestimate
the role that the responsible marketing of flavors plays in helping adult
consumers move on from combustible products to alternative tobacco and nicotine
products," BAT said in a statement. Juul recently opened shops on Chinese e-commerce
sites Tmall and JD.com as it seeks to expand worldwide. E-cigarette risks Michael R. Bloomberg, the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, has campaigned and given money in
support of a ban on flavoured e-cigarettes and tobacco and supports efforts to
reduce global demand for tobacco worldwide. Some European countries have highlighted risks of
e-cigarettes, including addiction and the possibility that they could encourage
users to take up smoking. An August report sponsored by the German health
ministry concluded that while they may help smokers quit, they should be
regulated more strongly to reduce the public’s use of the products and prevent
cardiovascular risks. Still, Europe’s approach has been less adversarial,
according to Jonathan Fell, principal at London-based investment manager Ash
Park, which owns shares in Philip Morris, BAT and Altria. "In the US there’s still this mindset that
what is the enemy is the tobacco industry, not the harms from smoking," he
said.