Republican Senator Josh Hawley warned state
attorneys general expected to announce an antitrust probe of Alphabet’s Google
on Monday that they should expect formidable defensive tactics, no matter how
cooperative the company has promised to be. "They will probably stall, stonewall, deflect,
deny, threaten," Hawley, a Missouri freshman who investigated the company
when serving as his state’s attorney general, told Bloomberg in an interview on
Sunday. The tech antagonist said he believes more than 40
states will ultimately be joining the probe, including his successor in
Missouri, Eric Schmitt. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has said he’ll
announce a multistate probe Monday into anti-competitive behavior by large tech
companies, and Bloomberg reported last week that the investigation is targeting
Google. "I’m really, really pleased by this news that
so many states are going to stand together and essentially join Missouri in its
efforts, now two years old, to investigate Google," Hawley said. Besides the coming states’ probe of Google, the
company on Friday disclosed a Justice Department investigation, and New York
announced it’s leading a multistate probe of Facebook as the technology giants
face intensifying scrutiny and the possibility of vast fines and even break-up
demands. Antitrust investigations can be long, sprawling probes that can drag
on for years. Hawley said that, during his investigation,
Google’s opening gambit was to claim that Missouri’s consumer protection
statute didn’t apply to the company because it doesn’t sell anything and
consumers don’t pay for the service. (Hawley’s probe spanned both consumer
protection and antitrust issues.) 'Might not have
outright lied' Google’s search, email, map and other
consumer-facing services are free, but the company uses the vast troves of
information it obtains from users to sell advertising all over the world.
Alphabet took in almost $137bn in revenue last year. Next Google delayed handing over documents, Hawley
said. "When they finally did start producing
documents, then predictably they took the other approach and produced, I think
it’s safe to say, millions of pages of documents, many of which we thought were
dated," he said. At one point in talks over what Google would
produce and when, his staff was compelled to write to the company that although
they might not have "outright lied to us," they’d been deliberately
misleading and acting in bad faith, Hawley said. He declined to go into greater
detail. "You give your clients a zealous defence,
that’s fine," Hawley said, adding that Google’s tactics were fairly common
among corporate targets and that his own office was typically aggressive. "But
there’s a difference between doing that and misleading and lying about what
you’re going to produce, and trying to shut down an investigation by being
totally uncooperative." Google spokesman Jose Castaneda said the company
has "always acted in good faith in answering regulators’ questions
promptly, honestly, and thoroughly." "Any suggestion to the contrary is simply
false," he said. Although Hawley’s probe formally alleged little
about the company, it attracted nationwide media attention just as his
challenge to incumbent Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill ramped up. Since his
election in 2018, Hawley has ridden his broadsides against Big Tech, and some
proposals to curb its power, to a position as one of President Donald Trump’s
right-hand men on the issue. Google has only become more powerful in the market,
Hawley said, which means that its "privacy violations" are that much
more harmful. He said he wouldn’t speculate on what the investigation may
produce, but he noted his particular concern about the company’s handling of
children’s privacy and tracking of consumers across the web. Hawley said fines
need to exceed recent settlements and that breakups and unwinding of mergers "should
definitely be on the table." On September 4, Google agreed to pay $170m to the
Federal Trade Commission and New York to settle allegations that it violated
children’s privacy laws on its YouTube video-streaming platform. Hawley said the group of states should expect that
Google will "certainly buy armies of lawyers. They will buy armies of
lobbyists. They will buy armies of economists. They will try and purchase echo
chambers and think-tanks." The size of the coalition, and the big states such
as Texas that are involved, though, will limit what Google can do in the long run,
Hawley said. "This is very bad news for Google," he said.