Democrats' and Republicans' pessimism about the economy continued to grow in August,
driven by President Donald Trump's trade war with China. The
University of Michigan Index of Consumer Expectations dropped 10.6 points to
79.9 in August, its steepest drop since Trump took office. Republicans and
independents led the way, with their lowest levels of the Trump presidency. Trump's
trade war with China seems to be driving the lowered expectations. Among those
concerned about tariffs in the survey, the index was 56.2 - compared to 89.8
for those who didn't mention tariffs. "While
the overall level of sentiment is still consistent with modest gains in
consumption, it is nonetheless likely that consumers could be pushed off the 'tariff cliff' in the months ahead," said the University of Michigan's Richard
Curtin. Sanders
Gathers Workers to Jump-Start 2020 Bid The
Bernie Sanders campaign says it used one conference call to set up 1 600 house
parties, expanding his effort to bring in new voters for a candidacy that’s
been stuck in second place in all national polls. The "Plan to Win" house party push was the largest the campaign has done. The
rallies will be held Sept. 18-24 in the key early-voting states of Iowa, New
Hampshire, South Carolina, Nevada and California. Sanders is currently polling
at 17.1% nationally, according to the Real Clear Politics average. "We
are the strongest campaign to defeat Donald Trump," Sanders said in a phone
call with volunteers, according to the campaign. "We have over a million people
at the grassroots level who are prepared to volunteer for this campaign because
they know the stakes, they know the moral imperative of defeating Trump and the
equally important imperative of transforming our country". The
events will be used to organize volunteers and phone banks. Sanders,
77, who was defeated by 2016 Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, comes in No. 2
in nearly every poll behind Joe Biden, and is in a statistical tie with
Elizabeth Warren. He's been looking for ways to move his campaign forward.