In June last year, a
crunch OPEC meeting was on the edge of collapse. Iran had threatened to storm
out and sink a deal on production quotas, accusing the Saudi Oil Minister
Khalid Al-Falih of trying to steal market share. Enter Al-Falih’s
deputy, an urbane OPEC veteran who’d worked with Iranian Oil Minister Bijan
Zanganeh for decades. He put his diplomatic skills to brokering the kind of
fudge that’s seen the group through many difficult meetings and the next day
his boss was able to tell the world the kingdom’s oil policy remained on track. The understudy is
now playing the lead. Late on Saturday night, Al-Falih was removed and replaced
as energy minister by Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman. A half-brother of Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman, he’s the first member of the royal family to hold the job. While putting a
prince in charge of oil policy is unprecedented, Abdulaziz is no novice. He’s
devoted most of his adult life to understanding the global energy market and fine-tuning
Saudi Arabia’s role as the world’s largest oil supplier. After studying
management at King Fahd University in Dhahran, he first became an adviser in
the energy ministry in the late 1980s. He’s attended dozens of OPEC meetings
and played a key role in negotiating a deal that cleared a global crude glut
after the 1998 Asian financial crisis. Now in his fifties,
the prince is known for his perfectly cut suits, soft-spoken style and
impeccable manners. He recently led talks with Kuwait to restart long-closed
fields in an area where the two countries share sovereignty. "The new
minister is highly experienced and knows his subject better than just about
anyone in the country," said Joseph Kechichian, senior fellow at the King
Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies in Riyadh. In his first public
appearance as minister, Prince Abdulaziz signaled no radical change in Saudi
oil policy. Riyadh will continue to back the OPEC+ coalition that combines
Russia and other producers with members the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Saudi Arabia wants higher prices, but realizes the U.S.-China trade
war and fears of an economic slowdown have started to slow demand and hit
market sentiment. "There is
nothing radical in Saudi Arabia, we all work for the government, one person
comes, one person goes," he said while attending an energy conference in
Abu Dhabi. "Fundamentally, Saudi Arabia’s energy policy is resting on few
pillars. The pillars don’t change." Different style But the style of
Saudi Arabia’s oil-market management is likely to be different. Al-Falih talked
to the market a lot, frequently appearing on business TV channels and holding
regular press briefings after OPEC meetings, a strategy that ran the risk of
diminishing returns. He was prone to using central banking tropes like "whatever
it takes" in attempts to jawbone prices higher. Prince Abdulaziz is
likely to revive the more restrained communication style of Al-Falih’s
long-serving predecessor Ali Al-Naimi, making fewer, but more meaningful public
announcements, according to a person who’s known the prince for several
decades, but asked not to be identified discussing private conversations. "We expect to
see less verbal interventions from the new minister," Yasser Elguindi,
market strategist at Energy Aspects, said in a note to clients on Sunday. Al-Falih’s biggest
achievement of his three-year term was managing OPEC’s agreement with Russia, which
saw the world’s No. 2 exporter agree to formal curbs on production for the
first time as the global oil market adjusted to a flood of American shale oil.
Prince Abdulaziz is fully supportive of the Russian alliance, but is likely to
put more emphasis on relations with OPEC members, according to a Saudi official
briefed on the government’s thinking. Diplomatic network The prince’s
unparalleled diplomatic network may help soothe relationships frayed by
Al-Falih, who often seemed impatient with OPEC members unable or unwilling to
contribute meaningful oil production cuts. Al-Falih was so focused on his
relationship with his Russian counterpart Alexander Novak, traditional Saudi
allies like Kuwait sometimes felt marginalised. "We expect
under his leadership, he will continue where Khalid Al-Falih left" off,
OPEC Secretary-General Mohammad Barkindo said in an interview on Monday in Abu
Dhabi. "He is a bridge-builder, he’s an astute diplomat." The prince will have
a far narrower remit than his predecessor. As well as being responsible for oil
production policy, Al-Falih was chairman of state oil company Aramco and led
planning for its IPO. He was also in charge of the kingdom’s industrial
development. Aramco is now chaired by the head of the sovereign wealth fund and
the industrial portfolio rests with another minister. Even with more time
to focus on the oil market, Prince Abdulaziz will confront the same tough
challenges as Al-Falih. Crude prices have stabilized around $60 a barrel, about
$20 below what the kingdom needs to balance its budget. The surge in U.S. shale
production over the last five year has put Saudi Arabia and its allies on the
back foot, forced to concede market share to shore up prices. Now the trade war
is putting pressure on demand, prompting analysts to ask whether further output
cuts will be necessary next year. Different generations His relationship
with the crown prince will be critical. They come from different generations --
MbS is more than 20 years younger and Prince Abdulaziz had never been seen as
part of his inner circle. During the early years of his half-brother’s
ascendancy, Prince Abdulaziz was less involved in policy making and spent long
stretches outside the kingdom. But the prince’s more prominent role in the last
two years -- active at OPEC meetings and leading talks with Kuwait -- suggests
they’d become closer in the run-up to his promotion. Despite MbS’s
attempts to diversify the economy away from oil, the crude price remains the
single most important influence on the health of the Saudi economy. A
challenging oil market may test ties between between the two princes.