Cash-starved Zimbabweans are forking out
premiums as high as 55% to get cash on the black market in the troubled
Southern African country, as liquidity shortages worsen. Fin24 spoke to agents of EcoCash – the
biggest and most widely used mobile money payment and transfer platform, owned
by Econet Wireless Zimbabwe – who indicated that the premium had risen from
around 35% in the previous week to around 55% currently for people seeking hard
cash. Demand for cash in the troubled Southern
African country has spawned a massive hike in cash premiums, they said. In an effort to rally support for the
Zimbabwe dollar, the country’s central bank withdrew ZW$400m from the banking
system in June, but the move has not halted speculative attacks on the currency
and exacerbated the current physical cash crunch. People looking for cash buy from mobile
money agents such as EcoCash. It works as follows: those
with electronic balances can withdraw money electronically from their banks and
transfer it to their mobile money wallets. Once the money has been transferred
to mobile money wallets, it’s then transferred to mobile money agents or
dealers, who then charge a premium for cash. For instance, a person seeking cash amounting
to ZW$100 will have to pay ZW$155 electronically or via a mobile payment
platform. An EcoCash agent told Fin24 he sources cash
from the black market at a premium and tops up his own spread. "We source the cash from the black
market a slightly lower rate. My spread on this money is not that big. I get
commission for all the transactions that I do as an agent," he said. Even many retailers in the country have
factored in the premium for cash into the price of goods, adding to the mounting costs faced by Zimbabweans. More
cash But this could be coming to end if Reserve
Bank of Zimbabwe governor John Mangudya is to be believed. In his monetary policy statement on Friday,
he said the central bank would issue more notes to respond to strong demand for
cash. "The increase in the demand for
physical cash has worsened cash shortages, as reflected by unending queues at
most banks in the country. "In addition, visitors to the country,
including tourists, are failing to access cash for their domestic transactions,
as they are supposed to buy local currency cash from banks or bureaux de
change," Mangudya said. "Failure to get cash is undermining confidence
in the local currency as well as forcing economic agents to resort to the
illegal transactions in foreign currency and to selling cash at a premium." Mangudya said based on the country’s
historical cash levels and that of neighbouring countries, the currency in
circulation is estimated to be around 10-15% of broad money supply. "The Bank will continue to inject
additional notes and coins on a gradual basis, to […] lessen the inconvenience
caused by physical cash shortages to the transacting public," Mangudya
added. He warned the cash injections would not
result in an increase in money supply, as banks would use existing RTGS (real-time
gross settlement) balances for cash.