Despite slightly higher vacancies and a sharp reduction in the rent from
Edgars and Jet stores, Fortress, the largest owner and developer of logistics
real estate in South Africa, saw an increase in the revenue earned from
its properties. For
the year to end June, revenue from direct property operations grew by less
than a percent to R3.4 billion. Investors in Fortress A ordinary share saw
their dividend increase by 4.32%. The company owns 100 logistics property – including N1
Business Park, Isando Business Park, City Deep Industrial Park -  and 61 shopping centres, including Thrupps
Illovo Centre and the Fourways Value Mart. Along with other landlords, Fortress agreed to reduce the
rental charged on all Edgars, Jet and JetMart stores by 41%, in exchange for
shares in the Edcon business. “We ascribe no value to these shares and will
continue to distribute only the cash component of rental received. During the
last six months, we have reduced our exposure to the Edcon group by
approximately 8 000m2.” Total vacancies, measured as a percentage of gross lettable
area, increased marginally from 7.0% at 31 December 2018 to 7.2% at 30 June
2019. Fortress says is office portfolio was hit by an oversupply
in the market, and “aggressive offers from competing landlords”. It is now selling
its offices, and will use the money to develop logistics properties. In addition to its South African property portfolio, Fortress
has a 23.9% interest in NEPI  Rockcastle,
valued at R18.1 billion, and an effective 11.1% interest in Resilient REIT, valued
at R2.5 billion. Fortress’s net asset value increased marginally by 1.4% to
R35.7 billion at end-June, primarily due to a combination of positive
revaluations on its investments in NEPI Rockcastle and Resilient. Earlier this week, the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA) cleared Fortress of
any wrongdoing after allegations that it manipulated its share price and company
performance. It has been investigating the company since last year, when
Fortress, along with NEPI and Resilient, saw massive slumps in their share
prices amid reports
of suspect inter-company transactions. Compiled by Helena Wasserman