President
Cyril Ramaphosa was right to apologise on behalf of South Africa for the violence
that engulfed parts of our country in recent weeks, much of which was directed
at foreign nationals from the rest of the African continent. He is also correct
to send out teams of emissaries to assure affected countries that his
government and the majority of South Africans are ashamed of what has been done
to their nationals in our country; that work will be done to ensure that none
of it ever happens again. In
addition, he is correct to admonish the responsible elements in the taxi
industry and other South Africans involved in the violent attacks on people and
businesses alike to stop the madness and embrace their fellow Africans living
in South Africa. He reminded them that they should do this in the spirit of
humanity, mindful of the values enshrined in our Constitution and Bills of
Rights. The President gets a basket of well-deserved kudos for all this. I’m
tempted to add that he should brandish the same values and the need to respect
the law or our land to some in the party he leads, but that would be a
digression. But he
and the government are wrong to refuse acknowledging the obvious, that "xenophobic"
is, increasingly, what has come to be South Africa’s descriptor around the
continent in recent years. It did not start in 2019. It is so because xenophobia
does exist in South Africa; irrespective of what official spin dictates.
Denying this truth and trying to spin reality into something more palatable for
our national sensitivities is not helpful. The
discussion the president should lead is one that goes deeper into what got us
here, in the first place, and drove some, not all, South Africans to become
xenophobic. We have seen the video clips making the rounds on social media and
we have heard many calls into radio talk shows from South Africans demanding
the return of all foreign Africans back to their home countries. Many of the
calls are underpinned by undisguised hatred of foreigners – and fear of the
unknown – by people who believe that the said foreigners steal our jobs, take
away our women (that possessive pronoun again), and corrupt our children. So, we
can repeat all we want that recent attacks against foreign nationals and the
businesses they own here were driven by something else, not xenophobia; or that
more South Africans died during the violent attacks than foreigners; or even
quote anecdotes of positive relationships between South Africans and
foreigners. But none of it will make xenophobia go away. We’re
a nation of many narratives; no doubt. There are South Africans who have
nothing against foreign nationals in their land and there are others who are
dead against their presence here. These are the two extreme positions.
In-between, there are those who are fine with having foreigners here, provided
they entered the country lawfully, that they are documented, and that they respect
the laws of our land. Others believe that documented or not, the numbers of
foreign nationals must be capped, and that only those who bring investments or
rare skills into the country should be allowed to settle here. Some have even
demanded that those who open businesses here must share the secrets to their
apparent successes, or - wait for it - transfer their skills to locals. Those,
like Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, who pointed out that South Africans are simply
hungry, not xenophobic, are only correct to a point. At least they sail very
close to the truth. South Africans are hungry as a result of state capture and
other forms of corruption that have ensured that trillions of rands were
diverted from state coffers into the accounts of politically connected
companies, individuals and a whole basket of opportunities employed by the
state at border posts, in the department of home affairs and elsewhere, where
bribes could be demanded/taken in exchange for doing right to serve the best
interests of the country and its people. None
of the above is aided by the stubborn, lasting effects of the politically
commissioned and funded Bell Pottinger campaign and its devastating consequences
on racial harmony in the country. Angry black South Africans, convinced that all
whites - not corruption and poor leadership - are responsible for their plight,
have taken to finding scapegoats in our fellow white compatriots, whom they
refer to as ‘settlers’ who do not belong here, and in foreign nationals from
Africa, whom some routinely blame for stealing job and business opportunities
that would  otherwise accrue to them. Businesses
have shut down, skills and funds continue to leave the country, and levels of
unemployment continue to rise. Several state-owned entities have in their
employ a lot more people than they need, but they will not be allowed to even
consider sound business decisions that would require them to reduce their
salary bills because the politically aligned trade unions will not let them do
so, nor will the politicians for whom kicking the can further down the road is
decidedly an easier route to take than making harsh, yet necessary, decisions. The
basics for managing damaged reputation remain the same, whether one deals with
a service, a product, a person, or destination reputation. It starts with an
honest acknowledgement of what went wrong – not placing a plaster on a wound
that will continue to fester if not treated from source – understanding what
got us here, then coming up with ways to make sure none of it ever gets to happen
again. The
leadership South Africa needs must not be seen as a popularity contest. It must
be leadership that understands the need to make unpopular decisions. It would
include making South Africans look into the mirror and acknowledge what they
see. Only then can we start conversations about healing for the future. Xenophobia
has long entered our shared living room. Let us have honest discussions about
what has caused it, then deal with the problem humanely, with emotional intelligence
and balance, in order to come up with lasting solutions to it. If we fail, the
image of South Africa will continue to hurt, associated with bad stuff
elsewhere in Africa and around the world, and our chances of attracting lucrative
investments and other foreign exchange earning opportunities will remain under
threat. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.