Apple gained US approval to avoid tariffs on Chinese imports
for the upcoming Mac Pro computer, even though President Donald Trump indicated
the company's waiver requests would be rejected. Ten of Apple's 15 requests for exclusions from 25% duties
have been approved, according to the US Trade Representative's office. Customs
and Border Protection determined it can administer the waiver from the levies
when the goods enter the US. On Thursday, Apple's request to win exemptions for
the components had moved to an advanced stage in the approval process. Trump had signaled that relief from tariffs would be
rejected, saying in a July 26 tweet that "Apple will not be given Tariff
waiver, or relief, for Mac Pro parts that are made in China. Make them in the
USA, no Tariffs!" But the president later told reporters "we'll work it
out" and that "I think they're going to announce they're going to build
a plant in Texas." Apple battles EU over $14.4bln tax bill Apple is seeking to overturn an EU order that it pay Ireland $14.4bln in back taxes. Bloomberg reported in June that Apple was shifting
production of its new Mac Pro to China from a facility in Texas. The Cupertino,
California-based company hasn't suggested there are plans for new factories in
the state, though Apple has said it will expand its local headquarters there. Apple's requests involved goods that are part of $200bn in
Chinese products hit with tariffs last September. Trump increased the duty on
that batch to 25% from 10% in May. The rate is due to rise to 30% on October
15, including on another $50bn of goods also hit last year. Trump ordered duties on about $300bn of essentially all
remaining Chinese imports starting September 1, but he delayed imposition on
some consumer products until December 15. Apple has said those duties would affect nearly all of its
major products, including iPhones, iPads, MacBooks, Apple Watches, AirPods and
the iMac. Apple had so far asked for exclusions on Mac Pro parts and
accessories, as well as its Magic Mouse and Magic Trackpad. Requests for tariff
relief for the overall exterior enclosure, the Magic Mouse and Magic Trackpad
and some key internal components for the Mac Pro have been approved, while
requests for wheels and other components are still under a substantive review
by the USTR. Exclusion decisions are based on whether a product is
available only from China, is strategically important or related to Chinese
industrial programs, and whether duties will "cause severe economic harm"
to the company or US interests, the USTR has said. In its 15 requests for exclusions posted July 18, Apple said
the devices or components are not related to Chinese industrial programs – and
that "there are no other sources for this proprietary, Apple-designed
component."