Some readers have asked me about the various ways in
which one can invest in offshore shares. Say, for example,
that you want to buy some Twitter Inc shares. Twitter is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). One of the first options is to move your money overseas and
convert it to foreign currencies. If you want to buy Twitter shares
on the NYSE, you will therefore need to convert your South African
rand into US dollar. To convert your rand into dollar and then move it abroad to buy
some Twitter shares, you can choose one of the following options: Option 1: You want to invest up to a maximum of R1m in
offshore shares and do not want to repatriate your funds to
South Africa. You can use your single discretionary offshore
allowance of R1m, which does not require tax clearance from the
South African Revenue Service (Sars). Keep
in mind that this allowance resets every
calendar year, meaning that every year you
can use your allowance of R1m. Option 2: You want to invest more than
R1m, and up to R10m in offshore shares
and do not want to repatriate your funds
to South Africa. You can use an offshore
allowance of R10m. You will need to get a
tax clearance certificate in respect of your
foreign investments from Sars. Keep in
mind that this certificate, once issued, is
only valid for 12 months. Option 3: You want to invest without
the administrative requirements of applying for tax clearance
and you’re willing to repatriate your funds when you withdraw
your investment. An asset swap account allows you to invest
offshore without using your offshore allowance. Such an
asset swap account is also available to trusts, companies and
partnerships. This option comes with other requirements. Who can help me with this? Any bank, or any other institution with an international payment
functionality can assist you with any of the mentioned options.
Choose an institution that can seamlessly assist you with the
administrative requirements involved when taking your money
abroad. Keep an eye on costs. It might be easier to use a local asset manager to invest in
offshore funds on your behalf when investing larger amounts. It
might also be less expensive this way. What next? Once you’ve decided on your option and actioned the applicable
requirements, you will need to open an account with an
international stockbroker. Of course, many different international
brokers are available, but always ensure that the broker you choose is licensed and is a regulated broker. Regulated brokers are registered as members of various
regulated financial institutions, such as our domestic FSCA
(Financial Sector Conduct Authority). The reference to such an FSP (Financial Services Provider) will
indicate that they are regulated and are bound to abide by rules and
regulations. If you are unsure, please contact these authorities to
verify the existence of such an FSP. And again: Always make sure of trading costs as it will be quoted
in the foreign currency. Take note that a minimum deposit amount is required to
open such a trading account. The same is applicable with the
asset swap account. Consider the risks Investing offshore may enhance your returns and
reduce risk by diversifying your exposure to a specific
currency or country. However, you must understand
the risks associated with such a portfolio of offshore
shares. Firstly, you’ll need to consider currency risk. A
stronger rand can offset any gains on your offshore
share portfolio. It is important to move your money
out of the country at times of rand strength. The
perfect scenario will be to bring your money back to
South Africa when the rand is weak and when you
have substantial gains on your account. If you are
uncomfortable with the volatility in the markets, do
not attempt investing offshore. Remember that South Africa remains an emerging market
and is small in comparison to the international markets. Our
currency remains volatile. A long-term view is also required to fully benefit from
offshore investing. It is advisable to approach a tax expert because of the perceived
complexity of applying tax and Reserve Bank clearance to offshore
investments and the capital gains when disinvesting. Ready, steady… The actual trading of offshore shares occurs through an online
trading platform whereby you have direct, real-time access to
international stock exchanges. Once you’re all set up, you’re only left
to decide what share you will be trading. Keep in mind that while you can construct your own portfolio
of global shares and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), you can
also choose to have your portfolio managed by a team of
advisers and expert analysts. Most local share brokers can assist
you in this regard. Peet Serfontein is a director of Phoenix Investment Analytics. This article originally appeared in the 12 September edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.