South Africa’s biggest ever investigation into
the private healthcare sector system has revealed we’re paying increasingly
unaffordable prices for more healthcare than we need. The Competition Commission’s inquiry into the
private healthcare sector has spanned more than five years and amassed the
largest-ever data set on everything from how major hospital groups negotiate
with medical aids to why the price for even basic procedures can vary so much from
doctor to doctor. Less than one in five South Africans has
private medical aid, according to 2018 figures from Statistics South Africa. But many more of us use the private healthcare system. In fact, almost a third
of households surveyed said that their first port of call when someone fell ill
was a private healthcare provider. And for the average consumer, Monday’s
Competition Commission report reveals that you really are paying more for
private healthcare — and you’re forking out money for care that you don’t
necessarily need. The commission found higher than normal rates of hospital
admissions and some forms of surgery than what our health as a country would
dictate. There was no data to show that overtreatment did us any good. What it is doing though is pushing up your
premiums — and everyone else’s, explains Wits University professor Sharon Fonn,
who was part of the commission’s expert panel. “There is this story that private healthcare
is so much better. Sure it’s more comfortable, the queues are shorter and there
are nicer carpets,” Fonn says. “But whether it’s necessarily better, we have no
data.” Here are four ways that the commission’s
investigation will change the future of your healthcare and the National Health
Insurance: 1. It
could shape what you get under the NHI: Medical aids
are legally required to cover in full a set of 270 specific treatments for
common conditions, called Prescribed Minimum Benefits (PMBs). But most of these
are hospital-based, which means you’ll pay out of pocket for day-to-day needs
like contraception. The Competition Commission inquiry flagged the problems
with PMBs relatively early on in its investigation. In its final report, it
found that because medical aids are forced to pay for this largely
hospital-based care, doctors can unilaterally determine how much they will
charge for them. This practice can push up prices and may tempt some doctors to
prescribe more tests and care than are needed. PMBs will now be reshaped to include more
basic everyday health needs. The new and improved PMBs are likely to be aligned
with the basic package of care everyone will be entitled to under the NHI. 2. It
may determine what your medical aid cover looks like under the NHI: ThereCare almost 70 different medical aids and more
than 100 different plans among medical aids to choose from. You’re not alone in being unable to figure
out which is best for you. That’s why the Commission recommends that each
medical aid be required to offer the same base package. Sounds familiar? Yup,
that’s right, the NHI will offer a basic package too. Will these two look
similar? We think it’s likely. In the run-up to a fully implemented NHI, all
medical aid members will have to buy this base package, if the Commission gets
its way. Its experts argue that a standardised option like this without any
frills will force medical aids to compete with each other to demonstrate better
care and pricing. Under the proposed system, if medical scheme
members want more benefits, then they’ll purchase additional top-up cover. It’s likely this system will be a precursor to
a fully rolled out NHI, under which medical aids will be reduced to providing
only top-up cover. 3. It
could decide what you pay for healthcare in the future: The Competition Commission found that the South African private
healthcare sector is among the world’s most unregulated. But that will change
if the inquiry’s recommendations are rolled out. To curb ballooning costs, it’s
suggested that a maximum price for each PMB be established. For conditions that
fall outside PMBs, tariffs may be decided by a forum consisting of government,
business and civil society players convened by a newly proposed regulatory
body. Cheaper healthcare will mean a more affordable NHI. Having a procedure
done outside of what the NHI will cover? Well, in 2018 former Health Minister
Aaron Motsoaledi envisioned that these tariffs would still apply. 4. It
could put care closer to home: If you’re a  medical aid member, you’re probably locked
into using one of your scheme’s preferred providers. But using a doctor that’s
part of your medical aid network is easier said than done when you live in
underserved areas. Now, ahead of the NHI, the Competition Commission wants to
make it easier for your local GP to join preferred provider networks, explains
Competition Commission expert panellist Ntuthuko Bhengu. If doctors are being
paid for what they provide to patients, then it should be easy for them to link
up with medical aids. “We feel now that the medical scheme must just
put out its criteria and say to practitioners, ‘this is the criteria you must
meet’. Then it’s up to the practitioners to bill according to that,” he
explains. “The advantage is that this will deal with problems of access.” He adds: “We don’t want someone who lives in
Soweto to have to take three taxis just to get to a pharmacy in their provider
network when there’s actually a pharmacy just next door.” This
story was produced by the Bhekisisa Centre for Health Journalism.
Sign up for the newsletter.