In 2014, after realising the futility of solar power
investments in a country where the sun rarely
shines, Abe Cambridge left his home country,
England, to work as a solar financial adviser in Cape
Town. Here he was struck by the absence of solar
panels in the city. “I could not understand why there was such a poor
adoption of solar technology in a country where you
had to wear sunglasses most of the time, electricity
prices were increased by 10% to 14% each year and
solar energy produced up to four times lower carbon
emissions than coal,” he says. The reasons became more apparent as he became
familiar with SA’s energy environment: “In the absence
of subsidies, government incentives and funding
solutions, there wasn’t much motivation for people to
adopt this capital-intensive technology. Also, electricity
is traditionally seen as a running cost, not an operation
you wanted to diversify into.” He came up with a solution while sending money
to England via cryptocurrency: Instead of businesses
carrying the costs of solar power installations, outsiders
could buy solar panels down to the level of a single
solar cell, which could be micro-leased to businesses at
a rate which reduces their energy costs. The decentralised payment network of bitcoin
could be used for transactions as it allows small
payments with practically zero transaction costs. “Cryptocurrency is a great vehicle to move
money, as it involves lower costs and is much faster
than working through banks. It only becomes risky
due to volatility when you hold it for speculation,”
Cambridge says. “The peer-to-peer cryptocurrency
technology was invented for applications like this.
This is the perfect use.” Cambridge then launched the fintech company The
Sun Exchange. At the time, he was working full time
as an energy adviser and further developed the idea
in his spare time, with assistance from the Microsoft
Bizspark programme in Salt River. In November 2015,
he raised $25 000 through crowdfunding, reaching
150% of his target in 25 days. This he used to build the
prototype of www.thesunexchange.com. By March
2016, he launched The Sun Exchange’s first pilot
project – a 15kW solar energy system in Stellenbosch. The innovation drew a lot of international attention,
opening various avenues for investment funding,
bringing the company’s total value to over $5m today. “I carefully selected investors to ensure we share
the same values. The whole idea behind The Sun
Exchange is to connect the world with the sun and
to enable sustainable development. We, for example,
won’t get involved in solar projects associated with
factory farming or petroleum production,” he explains. The solution is appealing on multiple levels, says Cambridge; it yields a 10% to 14% internal
rate of return, and represents a way to invest in
environmentally friendly solutions with social and
economic impacts. Schools represent the majority of the ten solar
projects The Sun Exchange has enabled so far. For the energy consumer it eliminates the need
to buy a whole solar power system, choose a service
provider, or to oversee installation and maintenance. “There also isn’t the risk that you might move before
reaping the full benefit of the installation,” he says. The minimum unit cost per energy cell is R50.
Participants buy cells for projects by credit card, bank
transfer or with bitcoin and receive their monthly
payments in either rand or bitcoin. “About 90% of our platform users don’t cash out
their bitcoin but use the returns to expand their portfolio
by buying more cells for other projects,” he says. The solar energy consumers are charged on their
kWh usage at a discount to the grid, which amounts
to about 15% to 50% of the Eskom rate, depending
on size and location. The first users found The Sun
Exchange with the launch of the crowdfunding
process, with word of mouth doing the rest. The
company now has nearly 8 000 registered platform
users on its database from 139 countries. The future Cambridge initially handled all the administration
and payments via spreadsheets in Excel, but over
time recruited staff to develop an operating platform.
“Developing a scalable user-friendly operating system
was one of my biggest challenges because of the
novelty of the concept. It took almost three years to
get the platform to where it is today. On our platform
users can see in real-time how projects are performing
and, once registered, they can buy into new projects
with a mere click of a button,” he says. Staff recruitment was another challenge.
“I was so flooded with work while developing
the business on my own that it was hard to identify
the talent needed to grow the business, never mind
finding the right fit.” Today the company employs 14 people.
Cambridge is focusing on expanding the
footprint of the company into the rest of Africa. To
achieve this, he is raising funds by listing The Sun
Exchange on Uprise.Africa, allowing people to buy
shares in the company. A recent partnership with the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change will also result
in platform users not only making money from
leasing they solar cells, but also from selling their
carbon offsets. This article originally appeared in the 12 September edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.