Economists are downgrading their forecasts for
economic growth in China again, to below a level seen as necessary for the
Communist Party to meet its own goals in time for its centenary in 2021. Oxford Economics, Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
and Bloomberg Economics on Tuesday all cut their forecasts for gross domestic
product growth in 2020 to below 6% as a result of increasing risks from the
tariff war with the US. In addition, Bank of America’s Helen Qiao and others
are warning that the government’s current approach to stimulus is proving
insufficient. China is refraining from cutting benchmark policy
rates or pumping large volumes of cash into the economy even as growth slows to
the weakest in almost three decades and the tariff escalation in August adds
further headwinds. That’s endangering President Xi Jinping’s ability to claim
China has reached a "moderately prosperous society" that has doubled
2010 GDP by next year, as a rate above 6% in 2019 and 2010 would be needed. Demand for credit has been weak, and while the
policy easing since late last year has helped moderate the slowdown, the impact
has been small, according to a report by Louis Kuijs, chief Asia economist at
Oxford Economics in Hong Kong. With all the issues facing China, "more
policy easing is needed to convincingly stabilize economic growth," Kuijs
said. China’s economic growth will likely slow to 5.7% in
the last quarter of 2019 and remain broadly at that pace in 2020, Kuijs said.
Output growth softened to 6.2% in the second quarter from a year earlier, close
to the lower bound of the government’s full-year target of between 6% and 6.5%.
Earliest indicators compiled by Bloomberg showed the economy slowed further in
August. "We now expect China’s growth to slow to 6%
this year and 5.6% next year. Our lower forecasts are subject to downside
risks, given further threatened tariffs, and uncertainty over how the blow to
business confidence from the trade war will play out," said Chang Shu,
chief Asia economist, Bloomberg Economists. Bank of America’s chief Greater China economist
Helen Qiao said their 2020 forecast has been cut to 5.7% from 6.0%, and warned
of the risk that policy makers are falling behind the curve on support to the
economy. "The key reason for delayed policy response is
policy agencies are waiting for the instruction from top decision makers to
shift policy stance towards easing," Qiao wrote in a note. UBS Group AG sees stimulus coming in the form of
more monetary easing, but expects policy makers to refrain from boosting the
property market unless there’s a significant downturn. Wang Tao, chief China
economist, now sees growth of 5.5% in 2020, after cutting the growth forecast
on Tuesday for the second time in less than a month, down from 6.1% in early
August. "The risk of further escalation remains
significant, which would put additional downward pressure on China’s growth,"
Wang said, adding that she expects the People’s Bank of China to further reduce
reserve-ratios this year but hold off from adjusting the broader benchmark
rate.