Rick Stone, a former partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham &
Taft, sees treacherous times ahead for family offices trying to deploy cash. The head of Stone Family Office said he doubts the bond
market will provide any real return over the next decade, that equity markets
will suffer a substantial drop and then be flat, and that too much venture
capital and private equity money will continue to chase too few opportunities. "It’s a very hard time for family offices to allocate
money," said Stone, 60, whose initial wealth came from class-action
litigation fees. Stone has a good vantage point on the action, since he runs
the bi-monthly meetings of the Palm Beach Investment Research Group, a network
of 35 family offices in Palm Beach, Florida. "The areas to invest in are
fewer, and there is a lot of money looking for those spaces," he said. That view of the markets is shared by many of the 360 global
single- and multi-family offices surveyed for the 2019 UBS Global Family Office
Report, which was done in conjunction with Campden Research and released
Monday. A majority expect the global economy to enter a recession by 2020, with
the highest percentage of gloomy respondents in emerging markets. About 42% of
family offices around the world are raising cash reserves. 'More caution' "There’s more caution and fear of the public equity
markets among ultra-high-net-worth investors," said Timothy O’Hara,
president of Rockefeller Global Family Office. "That has more people
thinking about private investments, alternative investments or cash." Jeffrey Gundlach, chief investment officer of DoubleLine Capital, said this
month he thinks there’s a 75% chance of a US recession before the November 2020
presidential election, while the World Bank cut its 2019 global forecast to the
slowest since the financial crisis a decade ago. More than two thirds of
European family offices surveyed by UBS, meanwhile, think Brexit will hurt the
UK over the long-term. The UBS/Campden report offers an insight into the discreet world of family
offices, which manage the fortunes, tax affairs and even lifestyles of the
wealthy. Taxing the super-rich is increasingly becoming a topic of discussion
in North America ahead of next year’s US presidential election. Democratic
candidates Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders have proposed wealth taxes that
may cost the nation’s richest billions of dollars. Family offices have become a greater force in global financial markets. Campden
estimates that such firms manage around $5.9trn. The offices in the UBS survey
had an average of $917m under management. Investing results have been mixed for those responding to the questionnaire,
which was conducted between February and March. Average family-office returns
for the 12 months prior to taking the survey were 5.4%, according to UBS.
Developed-market equities were a big disappointment, providing an average 2.1%
return. The highest average gains - 6.2% - were for family offices in the
Asia-Pacific and emerging markets regions, followed by 5.9% in North America
and 4.3% in Europe. Star asset Private equity was the star asset class, with an average
return of 16% for direct investments and 11% for funds-based investing. Real
estate also performed well, returning an average 9.4%, and now makes up 17% of
the average family-office portfolio, up 2.1 percentage points from last year’s
survey. In the year ahead, 46% of families said they plan to put more money in
direct private equity investments, with 42% devoting more to private equity
funds and 34% funneling more into real estate, according to the survey. Family offices are also increasingly focused on a different kind of potential
disruption: succession planning. This year, 54% of those surveyed said they
have a succession plan in place, up from 43% last year. "We didn’t really see the community addressing this issue in the way that
it needed to" in previous years, Campden Wealth research director Rebecca
Gooch said. "As the saying goes, ‘Wealth can be made and lost in three
generations.’"