To imagine the dilemma companies face when
preparing for Brexit, think of 24 tons of beetroot. After the UK’s departure from the Europe was delayed
in March, Nimisha Raja was forced to rent a chilled container to store the 20 000kg
mountain of the crimson vegetable she’d ordered in anticipation of disruption. "It was an absolute nightmare," said the
chief executive officer of snack producer Nim’s Fruit Crisps, based south east
of London. "We were trying to get through it quickly to save money on
storage. We all said we never want to see another beetroot again." While a new October 31 departure date from the
European Union provides another deadline for companies to brace for, their
inventory building might well be less dramatic than in the first three months
of the year. Hoarding for the original Brexit date in March helped the economy
experience a growth spurt of 0.5%, before it shrank in the second quarter as
businesses ran supplies down. This time might be different. Companies are
grappling with the possibility of yet another extension, leftover warehouse
surpluses, the bitter experience and wastefulness of previous stockpiling,
ongoing doubts about how to prepare, and simply fatigue with the whole process. That weariness and uncertainty are taking a toll
across the country. Business confidence has weakened and investment is in a
deep slump. Raja’s biggest worry now is access to citrus
fruits, which are especially popular around Christmas, and to the exotic and
out-of-season produce she needs to launch her range in a new chain of
supermarkets early next year. She has stopped taking on new export contracts
from the EU, awaiting greater clarity over costs of trade and the exchange
rate. Even so, having only just offloaded the beetroot
crisps she produced from the last round of hoarding, and with political chaos
threatening to further delay to Brexit, she’s "umming and ahhing"
about whether to stockpile this time around. She probably won’t. Rowan Crozier, CEO of Birmingham-based metal
pressing firm Brandaur, which produces components found in 90% of the world’s
electric kettles, says the stocks from March mostly remain in place. With a
lead time of up to 50 weeks for materials, he’s holding a third more than
required in case Brexit disrupts supply lines, which is eating into his
capital. At least, he notes wryly, it’s all quite small, non-perishable and
relatively simple to store. Even when goods are being freshly stockpiled, the
data may not fully reflect the situation. At Brandaur, one customer - a German
airbag manufacturer - built up stocks in March and is doing so again, but it
doesn’t have to pay until it actually uses the parts. Monitoring isn't easy "Our hard-earned cash is sat in material stock
which we need not be doing," says Crozier. "Unfortunately we had to
take a decision." Trying to keep track of the potential disruptions
is the Bank of England’s network of almost 30 agents around the country. But
with the outlook so clouded, and decisions changing with the political
situation day-to-day, monitoring isn’t easy. Governor Mark Carney told lawmakers in London this
month that the central bank underestimated how much the economy would slow in
the second quarter, largely because fewer businesses held on to non-perishable
stocks than they expected. At the same time, Chief Economist Andy Haldane
added that "a number have held the line and about a third plan holding
more." There’s also the issue of capacity, he said, as some firms need to
store additional stock before the busy Christmas period and simply don’t have
space. The latest survey by the BOE’s agents showed a "small
boost" to GDP from stock building was likely. The Confederation of British
Industry’s September survey showed firms are still building up supplies of
finished goods. What Bloomberg’s economists say "We doubt the
impact of stockpiling on the GDP figures will be as pronounced this time round.
The surveys suggest the firms aren’t building inventories to the same extent
while the October deadline will mean the lift to output is spread across 3Q and
4Q. That said, the impact is still likely to be visible in the data and like
1H, make it difficult to judge the underlying pace of growth." - Dan Hanson, Bloomberg Economics While hard for economists, Britain’s businesses are
the ones facing the real challenges from Brexit. The latest political chaos
isn’t helping. Prime Minister Boris Johnson was found to have unlawfully
suspended Parliament, and a month from the Brexit deadline, it’s still not
clear what will happen next. "People aren’t moaning about it, we’re taking
it on the chin," said Brandaur’s Crozier. "But when are we going to
know where we’re going?"