Applied Artificial Intelligence: A Handbook for Business Leaders by
Mariya Yao, Adelyn Zhou, and Marlene Jia Who is the most intelligent person you know? Why do you
consider him or her so intelligent? Is it because she is a quick thinker who
can absorb and process new knowledge immediately? Is it because he is astonishingly
creative and seems able to generate a constant flow of new ideas? People have a wide spectrum of what can be described as
intelligence. Computers, on the other hand, are best known for the one specific
area in which they are far superior to people: large-scale computational tasks.
Aside from this narrow area of expertise, currently machine capability lags behind
human intelligence. This book provides an indispensable entre to AI for business
leaders, and aspirant business leaders. They can ill afford not to have a
working understanding of an area that will have a profound impact on their
success. "To help business executives disentangle the functional
differences between different AI approaches, we've segmented applications along
our Machine Intelligence Continuum," the authors explain. Below are listed the key elements of each. Rule-based automatons At the lowest level of machine intelligence are "Systems That Act", which the authors
describe as rule-based automatons. These systems are built to perform as they
are scripted to, such as 'if this happens, then do that'. An example is the cruise
control in your car. It uses a motor to adjust the throttle position to keep
the car at the speed you selected. It is incapable of dynamic actions or
decisions. Most companies claiming to have AI are really using only "Systems
that Act". From known to unknown The next level is "Systems
That Predict". This system has the capability of analysing data and
producing probabilistic predictions. It moves from known information to unknown
information. The retailer, Target, was
able to identify 25 products, including unscented lotion and calcium supplements,
that can predict the likelihood of a shopper being pregnant - and even the
stage of her pregnancy. They used this information to target the lady and sell
specific products. Of course, these predictions are only as good as the data.
Flawed data will produce erroneous results. Deep learning To produce "Systems
That Learn" requires both machine learning and deep learning. What makes
this level different to the previous one is that they can perform tasks without
being explicitly programmed for this. The result is that these machines can
perform at human or better-than-human levels. The system acquires data from
which a prediction about the world is created. This prediction is then combined
with higher-level judgement and an action, to produce a particular result.
Information in the form of feedback and measurements from the result, can inform
earlier decision points and improve the task performance thereafter. A self-driving car, for
example, must control the whole driving task. It must turn video and sensor
feeds into accurate predictions of what is happening around it and take the
correct action. Are humans needed? It is often asserted that
with all the AI we still need humans, because only we are capable of creativity.
This is not true. Computers have been used for creating design and art for
decades. The recent breakthroughs in neural network models have led to a
revival of computational creativity. Computers are now capable of producing
original writing, imagery, music, industrial designs, and even AI software! Sony's Flow Machines used
AI trained on Beatles' songs to generate their own hit, Daddy's Car, which
eerily resembles the musical style of the Beatles. Ditto for Bach music which human
evaluators often couldn't differentiate from the real Bach. Human employees
collaborate more with AI tools at work and use digital assistants like Apple's
Siri and Amazon Echo's Alexa. As such, machines will also need to be
emotionally intelligent, and so we will increasingly need "Systems That
Relate". Sentiment analysis or
emotional AI, extracts and organises emotional states from our text, voice,
facial expressions, and body language. This data will allow computers to
respond empathically, just as the most sensitive people do. Amazon is already
prioritising emotional recognition for the Echo. Towards mastery A human toddler can see a
tiger only once and develop a mental construct of the animal, and recognise
other tigers. If people couldn't recognise different tigers, we would have been
killed by them. A deep-learning algorithm needs to process thousands of tiger
images to be able to recognise them in pictures and videos, but this doesn't
transfer to other abstractions of tigers such as cartoons or a person in a
tiger costume. People are the ultimate "Systems That Master", intelligent agents capable
of constructing abstract concepts from sparse data. We can create representations
of the world and transfer knowledge from one domain to another. There is a material
difference between AI and AGI – artificial general intelligence. To date no AI
system has AGI, only humans do. The authors final category
is "Systems That Evolve". These are systems that exhibit superhuman
intelligence and capabilities. Such systems can change their own architecture
and design, to adapt to environmental needs. As humans, we're limited by
our biological brains, our "wetware". We evolved through generations
and cannot simply re-architect our own biology in our lifetime. Computers are currently
limited by both hardware and software: we are limited by our wetware. Some
futurists suggest that we may be able to achieve superhuman intelligence by
augmenting biological brains with synthesised technologies, but currently this
is more science fiction than science. If we could achieve this
synthesis we would achieve "singularity", when machine intelligence
surpasses human intelligence, leading to an intelligence explosion and the emergence
of superintelligence. We are already seeing the promise of AI in action in the
fight against social injustice and crime; in addressing health and humanitarian
crises; in the solving of pressing community problems; and in the dramatic
improvement in the quality of life for everyone. Consider these examples. When Sahil Singla joined FarmGuide, a social impact startup,
he discovered that thousands of rural farmers in India commit suicide every
year. When harvests fail, desperate farmers are forced to borrow from
microfinance loan sharks at crippling rates, and unable to pay back, kill
themselves. Using FarmGuide which analyses satellite imagery to predict
crop yields for individual farms, Singla and his team built better actuarial
models for lending and insurance. Armed with this information they can provide
farmers with loans at lower, fairer interest rates. UNICEF's U-Report, is a social reporting bot that enables
young people in developing countries to report social injustice in their
communities via SMS and other messaging platforms. When U-Report polled 13 000 users in Liberia to ask whether
teachers at their schools were exchanging grades for sex, an outrageous 86% said
yes! Within a week of the U-Report on the "Sex Grades" epidemic,
hotlines around the country were inundated with reports of child abuse,
effectively exposing a pervasive taboo, and empowering victims to speak up and
reach out for help. AI can dramatically streamline and improve medical care. In
both pathology and radiology there is a reliance on people to spot anomalies. Studies
reveal that two pathologists assessing the same slide of biopsied tissue will
only agree about 60% of the time. AI systems for diagnosing breast cancer utilises computer-vision
techniques that have been optimised for medical image recognition. They were
able to interpret patient records with 99% accuracy. But AI is not without its own challenges. Poor or incorrect
data leads to poor or incorrect results. Biases of the technology creators
trickle down to their creations, which can have serious consequences for identifying
terrorists, predicting criminal recidivism, and triaging medical cases, and so
on. Perhaps the biggest challenge is that while AI will
transform the economy on a large scale, not everyone will benefit equally from the
opportunities that will become available. New jobs in this economy will require
greater technical competency than is currently available in the workforce. "Business leaders have an ethical responsibility to
workers to minimise and ameliorate the potential disruptions that AI may bring
to the workplace," note the authors. Investments in one's workforce could increase the likelihood
that advanced automation increases productivity, while ensuring high levels of
employment and shared prosperity. Readability         Light
---+- Serious Insights              High
-+--- Low Practical              High ---+- Low Ian
Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and implementation and is
the author of 'Strategy that Works' and 'The Executive Update.' Views
expressed are his own.