In last week’s column, I
sought to place a spotlight on the 2019 World Economic Forum on Africa, the
progress that has been made in implementing some of the resolutions reached at
the last forum, as well as the relevance of the 2019 programme to the political
and economic status quo in South Africa. At the core of my
interrogation, essentially, is to understand the extent to which the WEF on Africa’s
agenda is aligned to South Africa’s current needs – let alone the rest of the African
continent – many of which are urgent and, arguably, at the core of much of the distress
we see all around us. Jobs, jobs, jobs Discussions about the
Fourth Industrial Revolution are important and must be had, especially insofar
as many jobs in a number of mass employment sectors of our economy are said to
be threatened; all of which happens in a climate of a 29% unemployment rate,
with the youth being the most affected. What does it all mean for
South Africa, and what are the short-to-medium term ramifications for the
economy as we have known it to date? What will be the role of trade unions?
Will they be constructive participants in discussions about what the Fourth
Industrial Revolution, together with the increasing number of disruptive
technologies that come with it, will mean for our developmental economy and their
members? Will they be disruptors? Or
will they place stumbling blocks in the necessary journey we must take to
modernise our economy and make it future ready, mindful of the need to avoid
having too many traditional economy labourers rendered redundant and left
behind? Are the expected labour casualties
unavoidable or will the WEF on Africa help us find ways to cushion those who stand
to be most affected in a transitional reskilling period? To get some answers, I managed
to catch up with Doug Woolley, MD of Dell Technologies South Africa and Theo
Sibiya, MD of AT Kearney. First, I wanted to understand how well Dell
Technologies South Africa understood the political and economic challenges
faced by South Africa, as these challenges inform the context in which the 2019
WEF on Africa will be held. Challenges According to Woolley, South Africa’s economic challenges are substantial, but not
unusual. The rising debt-to-GDP ratio of the state warrants concern,
particularly with debt from critical infrastructure SOEs. Processes for
businesses, such as registration, can be improved. There can also be more
support for entrepreneurs and SMMEs. He further believes that South Africa’s social and political
challenges must be placed in the country’s historic context and accepted as unique,
given the more recent history and what remains a remarkable transition of
power. Whereas other societies have been reconfigured through oppression and
war, South Africa has chosen the better but harder route, argues Woolley. This
has created difficult challenges, such as social integration, rebalancing the
distribution of privilege and expanding access to opportunity for everyone, said
Woolley, who also referenced inconsistent policies, lackluster political will,
business apathy and international market events. The SA story "Some of these challenges can be addressed soon, others
will take a generation to fix. Employment, development, education, class
emancipation and prosperity are the indicators we all look to for a successful
South African story. They’re all achievable and many are growing, but the pace
can be faster than it currently is," he added. Mindful of the need for a more Pan-African, integrated, economic
development approach, I asked Sibiya what he thought should be the key areas of
focus; upstream, mid-stream, and downstream. Sibiya is of the firm view that the idea
of having centres of excellence across the continent is a great idea, but that it
is something that should be done as part of a later stage. There is a lot of work that needs to be done before we get to this stage
of the process and this level of collaboration, he opined. According to him, the
first kind of harmonisation step would be to focus on practical elements like
industrial strategy and aligning these. Competitive advantages This would give you a sense of which parts of the continent need to
drive which types of development, and where there is competitive advantage this
would naturally translate into a centre of excellence, he said.  "We’ve
taken a step in the right direction with the Africa Continental Free Trade
Agreement, but this just an agreement at this stage. The pragmatic and
practical steps need to be taken to unlock that agreement around investing in
infrastructure, making it easier for data to flow between countries, trying to
harmonise trade and industrial policies. All these things still need to happen
to effect the vision of an integrated continent and the ability to explore the
opportunities centres of excellence would create." On this point, Woolley believes that many
of the WEF on Africa discussions will look at the confluence between social
momentum across the continent and technology. "It’s been said to the point
of exhaustion that Africa is a leapfrog continent, citing how different
countries adopted mobile technologies to the degree that African mobile
innovations are being exported to the rest of the world. "But this remains true, and came to be for several reasons:
Africa’s geographical size and cultural diversity, large populations, broad
access to global markets and youthful demographics are all major positives."
Furthermore, modern connected digital technology, merged with the physical
world through 4IR, supports those positives more than any other development in
modern memory," he says. He admits, however, that the devil is in the details. While we
can talk in broad strokes about what technology can do for Africa, the
solutions that matter will happen closer to the ground, he says. Highlighting
and discussing those nuances will be the purpose of the WEF on Africa. What remains to be seen, in the end, will be the extent to which
South Africans here at home and our fellow brothers and sisters across the
continent and in the vast diaspora will be left with a sense that the future of
their continent will be better illuminated when they look at the various WEF on
Africa reports, when they are published. And as for us, here in South Africa, we wait to see whether those
who have been elected to lead us out of the state capture, corruption, and policy
uncertainty quagmire would have understood that Zimbabwe and Venezuela are just
outside our door steps and will soon be in our living room if nothing is done
to speak in one voice and to lead from the front. The dark forces are gathering
all around us. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of
strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers.
Views expressed are his own.