Boris Johnson is refusing to back down and pushing on with
his hardline Brexit strategy despite the risk of being taken to court and the
threat of more resignations from his Conservative Party. 

 After a bruising week of defeats for his Brexit strategy
culminating in the resignations of his own brother and cabinet minister Amber
Rudd, Johnson faces further setbacks on Monday. The prime minister will
probably lose another vote in the House of Commons and his Irish counterpart,
Leo Varadkar, played down the chances of a breakthrough when Johnson visits
Dublin earlier in the day.  "That legislation is lousy," Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told Sky
News. The government "want[s] to test to the limit what it does actually
lawfully require." It’s shaping up to be another key, and hard-to-predict, week for Johnson’s
still-new premiership. His majority in Parliament has been wiped out, he’s lost
the political support of more than 20 Tories - including two former chancellors
- and he’s unable to call a general election that he thinks could solve the Brexit
impasse. More than three years after the UK voted to leave the EU in a referendum, the
country is no closer to striking a divorce deal with the bloc. Lack of trust After taking over as prime minister from Theresa May in
July, Johnson has vowed he would rather be dead than delay the UK’s exit day
beyond the current deadline. But while the premier says he is happy to risk a
hit to the economy from leaving without a deal, if necessary, lawmakers won’t
let him. In response, he is pushing for a fresh election in the hope of winning a
majority he can use to push through his plans. But Parliament last week voted
to block that too and is expected to reject it again on Monday. Johnson’s opponents say they must first make sure he cannot carry out his
threat of a no-deal Brexit, which they fear would disrupt trade and risk a
recession. With nowhere to turn, the premier and his team are doubling down on
their hardline approach. Chancellor of the Exchequer Sajid Javid confirmed that Johnson plans to run
down the clock, emphasizing that he has until after the EU summit, on October
17 and 18, before the legislation says he has to act. " He will absolutely not be asking for an extension in that meeting,"
Javid said of the gathering of EU leaders. " Should we get to that point
we will look at our options. We will not change our policy." Justice Secretary Robert Buckland said he had stressed " the importance of
the rule of law" and denied speculation that he would follow Rudd and
Johnson’s brother Jo, who both quit the government over the premier’s Brexit
strategy. But Buckland hinted he might resign if Johnson pushes the issue too
far, saying he has " taken an oath to uphold" the law. ‘Elitist’Shami Chakrabarti, who speaks on legal affairs for the opposition
Labour Party, accused Johnson of being " irresponsible and elitist" for
thinking he won’t have to follow Parliament’s instructions. The Daily Telegraph
reported that Johnson’s team spent Sunday exploring ways to sabotage the new
law. The resignation of Rudd, who was work and pensions secretary, lost Johnson one
of the most senior members of his team, and a key pro-European voice in the
cabinet. Johnson is not trying hard enough to secure a Brexit agreement with
the EU and " 80-90% of government time" is being spent on preparing
to leave without a deal, she said. "I have not seen enough work going into actually trying to get a deal,"
Rudd told BBC TV. " When earlier in the week I asked Number 10 for a
summary of what the planning was for actually getting a deal I was sent a
one-page summary." Javid insisted Johnson "is putting all the effort you would expect from a
leader" into trying to get a new agreement with the bloc. There is a
proposal to be put to EU negotiators, but it’s too early to make it public,
Javid said. Officials in Brussels say they have received no suggestions for a
way forward from the UK. There was some respite for Johnson when culture secretary Nicky Morgan, who
like Rudd voted to Remain in the 2016 EU referendum, pledged to stay in the
cabinet. Writing in the Daily Mail, she said she wants more " transparency"
about talks with the EU " to ensure everyone is left in no doubt about how
a deal is possible and the effort which is being put in to making sure a deal
happens." Dublin meeting Varadkar, who will meet with Johnson in Dublin on Monday
morning, warned the UK is " very optimistic" to expect the EU to
consider dropping the " backstop" arrangement to protect the free
flow of goods across the Irish border. He said he doesn’t expect any
breakthroughs in the talks. Creating a single Irish food zone won’t be enough to break the impasse over how
to prevent a hard border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland
after Brexit, as food only accounts for about 30% of cross-border trade,
Varadkar told reporters in Dublin. While Johnson’s troubles are fixating Westminster, there were indications at
the weekend that they are less of a concern for the public. A Yougov poll on voting intention, conducted on Thursday and Friday last week,
suggests a large proportion of the electorate still backs Johnson’s strategy.
Support for his Conservative Party was unchanged at 35%, with Labour trailing
on 21%.