The Avengers have an early edge over The Force. "Avengers: Endgame" took in a domestic record of
$60m in Thursday night preview shows, setting up what will probably be an all-time
high opening this weekend. The day’s previous record was held by "Star
Wars: The Force Awakens," also part of the Disney stable, which earned $57m
from Thursday previews in 2015. Faster than the Milano on its way to Xandar with Korath the
Pursuer hot on its trail, "Endgame" has already set a $107m record
for single-day ticket sales in China, where it opened Wednesday. The film
spread to 4 662 US and Canada theater screens Friday, another industry record.
Outside the US and Canada, the film has grossed about $305m in its first two
days. The picture, the latest installment from Walt Disney’s
Marvel studio, caps a 22-movie storyline that began with "Iron Man"
in 2008. The Avengers superheroes, including Captain America, Hulk and Black
Widow, are now battling the intergalactic villain Thanos, who was last seen
wiping out half the living creatures in the universe. Estimates for the weekend grosses in the US and Canada run
as high as $320m, according to Box Office Pro and Box Office Mojo. Exhibitor
Relations puts the three-day number at $295m, while the Hollywood Stock
Exchange predicts $292m. Disney itself, which is usually cautious with
forecasts, suggested an opening weekend in the $300m range on Friday. Anything above $258m will set the record, one established
just last year by Marvel’s earlier installment: "Avengers: Infinity War." "The $60m taken in from Thursday night previews is the
highest ever, and suggests a domestic tally of more than $800m, with a
potential to break $2.5bn globally. That could also help movie theaters get a
boost, potentially offsetting the 17% slump year-to-date," said Geetha
Ranganathan, senior industry analyst. Pop-culture moment "'Endgame' is the culmination of an entire universe of
films," said Exhibitor Relations’ Jeff Bock. "The only thing shocking
would be if 'Endgame' didn’t turn the record books into dust." "Endgame" has already achieved status as a
pop-culture moment, with theaters running marathon screenings of the 21
previous movies in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Websites like IGN.com are
even suggesting the best times to use the bathroom during the new film’s 3-hour-plus
running time. Critics have generally praised the picture, which earned a
stellar 96% aggregate approval rating from reviewers on Rotten Tomatoes. "A film that should feel overlong and overstuffed rings
purposeful, weighted with existential truth even as it flashes before our eyes,"
the Chicago Reader’s Leah Pickett wrote in her review. Next comes speculation of what other records "Endgame"
might break. With this kind of juice, there’s every reason to believe it will
challenge the $2.07bn worldwide gross of "Star Wars: The Force Awakens,"
set in 2015. Only two other films in Hollywood history have taken in more: "Avatar"
in 2009 and "Titanic," released in 1997. One thing is clear: The Marvel machine has been a huge
moneymaker for Disney. Last year’s "Infinity War," for example,
earned an estimated $985m in profit, including TV, toys and theater ticket
sales, according to estimates from Kagan, S&P Global Intelligence.