Adidas and pop star Beyoncé joined forces to develop
footwear and apparel, as the German sportswear company seeks to reignite growth
in its casual fashion lineup. Beyoncé, known for hits such as "Single Ladies,"
last year ended a venture with UK fashion tycoon Philip Green, with the singer
buying out his stake in her Ivy Park brand. Adidas said the new deal "respects
Beyoncé's ownership of her company." Adidas is adding Beyoncé to a roster of celebrity partners
that already includes rapper Kanye West as it wrestles with a slowdown in
demand for retro footwear like the Stan Smith and Superstar, which drove its
growth for years. Archrival Nike has been gaining ground on the German company
on its European home turf. Adidas shares rose as much as 1% after the announcement
Thursday. Adidas Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted has said he’s
aiming to distribute West’s Yeezy line more widely this year in an effort to
spur sales of fashion-related items. Shoes from the line can fetch $300, compared with $80 for a
pair of Stan Smiths, and often resell for more than $1 000 to sneaker fans
online. The company also has partnerships with musician Pharrell
Williams and supermodel Karlie Kloss. Kylie Jenner, the cosmetics billionaire
member of the Kardashian clan, joined the Adidas squad as a brand ambassador
late last year, debuting in an ad campaign for a new running shoe in August. New products Adidas said the partnership with Beyoncé will develop new
products, including performance and lifestyle offerings. They will also focus on "empowering and enabling the
next generation of athletes, creators and leaders," the company said in a
statement. Beyoncé started Ivy Park in 2016 with Green’s Topshop as an
activewear line to be worn both in the gym and as casual street clothes.
Products included black jerseys, sleeveless hoodies and mesh bomber jackets. She first got into fashion in 2004 with a label called House
of Dereon. That brand fizzled over the years, unable to attract enough
shoppers. Its kids’ line folded in 2012. 