Companies sometimes have to “scoop”
themselves to survive. Kodak decided
to hold back its scoop. It was the first
company to develop a digital camera.
Instead of marketing it, it held back to save its
film business. We all know how that ended. But you have to have the right vision when
you want to reinvent your business. With the onset of online news websites,
newspaper editors kept the scoops for the
newspaper – the next day. They inevitably
got scooped by their competitors. Many
newspapers are still struggling to find the right
business model to continue making money
from their news. Many more companies are struggling to
predict and assess the rate of change
happening around them and how to
recognise the signs that they are
falling behind. One may have an existing
business model that still has some
life in it, but maybe for only another
decade or so. “The reality is to have the
courage to see things for what they
are, and not for the way you want
them to be,” says Gidon Novick,
founder of Lucid Ventures, and
co-founder of Colectiv. Today’s business owners need
courage, commitment and resilience to drive
change and innovation. It is human nature to
avoid things that are new because the outcome
is uncertain and scary or threatens to disrupt
your current model. People tend to clutch onto
things that are predictable and clear. “That is where the rubber hits the road
in terms of organisations that are willing
and able to adapt and change, compared to
organisations that stay stuck in their current
model or mindset,” says Novick. Jeff Bullas, digital entrepreneur and
founder of the jeffbullas.com website, lists ten
“alarming signs” that a business is in trouble.
One is being inflexible and not being willing
to listen to and to watch what is happening
around you and your business. Another is thinking that your university education is going to carry you right through
the tsunami of change. “Read blogs in your
industry, attend conferences and read till your
eyes bleed. A fast-changing world means
yesterday’s degree is just a piece of paper.” In a time where access and experience are
more important than ownership, you have to
make it easy for people to get your product.
Younger people are the future, and they
know what works on social media and the
internet, says Bullas. If you ignore their insight,
it will be at your own peril. Bullas says relevance today means
global thinking. Your competitor is no longer
necessarily the store down the road, it can be in
Hong Kong, New York or London. The simple things, like being found in
a web-search, are also important. Not
being found in a search can be a death
sentence, he says. “Not investing the
time and effort in making sure you
rank high in search engines is not
an option unless you think Google
is going away soon.” Novick says business owners
must be open to information
that is contrary to their current
business model and their current
thinking. Organisations will come
and go as a natural cause of things –
as an entrepreneur one must see the
opportunity in that. “There is no formula that says if you do
this and that you will save your business from
ultimate destruction,” says Novick. But, having
a “change mindset” and allowing it to permeate
throughout the organisation certainly helps. Often technology is the key difference
between continuing to be relevant and business
extinction, says Bullas. “I don’t mean upgrading your photocopier but
taking a long hard look at trends in the industry
that are promising disruption. E-commerce is
not just about buying on the web, it is commerce
driven by technology that offers better service,
speed to market and global reach.” Most organisations exist because they are
solving problems for their customers or they
are fulfilling a need. Organisations should be
asking questions like: What is the problem I am solving? How have the needs of my customers
changed over the years? Have I been able to
fulfil their needs as they have changed? One of the most valuable lessons for any
business is to stay close to its customers, says
Andrew Bahlmann, managing director of Deal
Leaders Africa. It is not a matter of reinventing yourself all
the time, says Bahlmann, but you need to know
what it is that your customer wants without
getting sucked in by trends. “Sometimes I think
it is just about following the recipe and getting
the basics right.” Novick says one thing that South African
consumers are yearning for is organisations
they can trust. “They have lost faith in
government, in companies because they have
been misled by them, and they are losing faith
in consumer-orientated companies who make
promises and do not deliver,” he says. And while there is a crisis of trust in the system,
it is presenting opportunities to organisations,
brands and companies to position themselves
purely based on building trust. Bahlmann says when investors look at
companies, they want to see solid governance
structures to ensure that there is trust in the
business. “You do not have to have the same
structures as a listed company, but you have
got to have good controls. You must give
yourself or a third party comfort that your
business can run without you or that it can deal
with the risks facing it out there.”