Tech entrepreneurs and former South African Broadcasting Corporation board members are among the South Africans who will receive national orders from President Cyril Ramaphosa at the end of April, according to a statement from the Presidency. The Presidency statement released on Tuesday said 30 people will receive national orders for their work in serving as well as advancing the interests of South Africa and its people with excellence and distinction. The order is considered the highest honour that a South African president can bestow on a person. Seven of the recipients are deceased and will be receiving their national orders posthumously. Former City Press editor and former SABC board member Mathatha Tsedu is set to receive the Order of Ikhamanga, which recognises South African citizens who have excelled in the fields of arts, culture, literature, music, journalism and sport. "[Tsedu is recognised for] his excellent contribution to South African journalism and to journalism on the African continent, as well as his selfless contribution to the liberation of our country and continent. His mighty pen continues to be his weapon in the building of our democracy," the statement said. The silver Order of the Baobab, which recognises South African citizens who have contributed to community service, business and economy, science, medicine and technological innovation will be bestowed on Black Management Forum founder Bongani Mkhwanazi posthumously. "[Mkhwanazi is recognised] for his excellent contribution to the upliftment of black business. "He was a doyen of black business and one of the foremost champions of the economic transformation of post-apartheid South Africa. His efforts had a commendable effect on social cohesion," the statement said. Ray and Dora Phillips will be included for their "excellent contribution to the creation of the first social work network designed to improve living conditions of the growing population brought to the Rand to work in the mines in the early twentieth century". The Order of Luthuli, which recognises South African citizens who contributed to the struggle for democracy, nation-building, building democracy and human rights, justice and peace will go to former head of internal medicine at Wits Yosuf Veriava, who has also won multiple awards for service and human rights activities. "[Veriava will be recognised] for his brilliant contribution to the medical profession in South Africa. He has consistently personified medical ethics and progressiveness. He also courageously pushed back the frontiers of the unjust and repressive laws of apartheid," the statement said. The Order of Mapungubwe, which recognises South Africans who have accomplished excellence to the benefit of South Africa and beyond will be bestowed on Malik Maaza, for his contribution to nanoscience and nanotechnology, and Ari Sitas for his contribution to social science scholarship and progressive policy-making.