Irrespective
of who wins the 2019 elections, South Africa will still have a lot of work to
do in the months – and even years – ahead. This will
be in order to regain its lost reputational confidence; to begin speaking in
one voice and removing doubt where there are lingering questions about economic
and political policy direction, among other things. Many of
these lingering questions being asked by people at home and around the world
take away much-needed attention from interventions that actually do work. It is
therefore a crucial investment in the country's wellbeing to rebuild its brand
and reputation. Moreover, going
by much of the discourse on various digital media platforms, including social
media, there are still too many South Africans who seem to underestimate both
the opportunity cost of what the country has lost over the past decade, on one
hand; and, on the other hand, the seriousness of the task that lies ahead for
us to rebuild. Many discussions
seem superficial and too focused on basic bread-and-butter issues. This is, of
course, understandable in a country with massive unemployment and poverty
levels, as well as a big, stubborn chasm between the relatively few rich and
the majority poor. Beyond the obvious But our
analysis of how we got here, and our journey towards a truly inclusive economy,
must go deeper than the obvious. By their
very nature, country brands are complex. They’re shaped not by one thing alone,
but by developments in politics, business, and in society, all of which form an
intricate network of image influencers that can make or break reputations that
have taken years to build. A major factor in South Africa's reputation has been the role played by
the audit industry, which has a crucial function in the credibility of multiple
sectors. Like the
country’s banking industry, which has for many years been praised for being
strong and resilient – especially after it withstood the ravages that damaged
banking systems in other parts of the world during the global economic meltdown
of the late 2000s – South Africa’s audit profession was for many years
considered to be professional, reliable, ethical, and globally competitive. At least,
this was the case until the recent state capture economy took hold. Stories
came out about relationships with clients that compromised several hitherto
strong audit brands and that led to uncomfortable questions about what was
really occurring in that sector. Fund
managers and investors looking at South Africa from elsewhere must also have
begun to ask questions about South African audit practices that they did not
typically ask before. The credibility
of the audit industry has a far-reaching impact. For the country's long-term economic
well-being, it must be restored. Lingering
questions Does the
appetite to gain and retain clients at any cost still sit above considerations
for general public interest? If they
don’t yet, should auditors learn to muster the gentle art of saying no and of
walking away when lucrative clients ask them for help to do wrong or to look
away from it, in exchange for contractual longevity? What does
the South African audit profession think about the need for rotation and,
crucially, the separation of audit services from consulting services? What
lessons have audit practitioners learned during the recent state capture economy? Importantly,
can the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA), whose mission is to "protect
the financial interests of the South African public and international investors
in South Africa through the effective regulation of audits conducted by
registered auditors, in accordance with internationally recognised standards"
be trusted to be an unshakeable buffer between public and investor interests
one hand and, on the other hand, the business of audit firms, and now
consulting firms? In his keynote
address at the 2019 Brand Summit South Africa, to be hosted on 6-7 June in
Johannesburg, South Africa’s respected Auditor-General, Kimi Makwetu, will
address the importance of values-driven and ethical leadership in
managing public funds, as well as the role of the auditing profession in
shaping the domestic and global image of South Africa. There is a need for this profession and others to open up to
a level of public scrutiny and to tell South Africans, who are still paying the
massive opportunity cost of state capture, about what plans are being put in
place so that auditors will never again be used by others to act against the
interests of South Africa. KPMG, which was one of the most visibly affected firms, has
been leading the way in this journey to reputational recovery, but the road
ahead for the entire profession is still a long one. When the audit profession finally gets it right, South
Africa will be in a position to claim that it is on a credible recovery
journey. * Solly
Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate
communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are
his own.