A regulatory fight over Elon Musk’s tweeting habit may be
over – at least for now. Tesla's chief executive officer and the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) said in a court filing Friday that they are settling
a legal dispute over how Musk posts news about his electric-car company,
avoiding a decision by a federal judge in New York on whether the billionaire
should be held in contempt of court. The SEC and Musk agreed to amend an earlier settlement to
add specific topics he can’t tweet about or otherwise communicate in writing
without advance approval from a Tesla lawyer. They include the company’s
financial condition, potential mergers or acquisitions, production and sales
numbers, new or proposed business lines, projections and forecasts that haven’t
been previously published, and Musk’s purchase or sale of Tesla securities. "This is a clear win for Elon Musk," said Dan
Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in New York. "This removes an
overhang on the stock because many feared this would not end well for Tesla.
The bark ended up being worse than the bite. There’s no structural changes." Tesla shares climbed as much as 1.6% to $238.88 at 18:10 in
New York. In regular trading, which ended earlier, the stock had its worst week
since Musk’s effort to take the carmaker private fell apart in August. There was no mention in the court papers filed Friday of any
new fines or additional controls on Musk, which had been a possibility. The
agreement must be reviewed and approved by US District Judge Alison Nathan
before it can take effect. Tweet trouble Musk came under criticism from the SEC after a February 19
tweet that the regulator said violated an October settlement between them,
which had ended an earlier brouhaha over his proclamations on Twitter. Musk
said he hadn’t violated the agreement. Had Musk been found in contempt, the
judge had the authority to impose hefty fines and new controls on how he
communicates with the public. At an April 4 hearing, Nathan told both sides to "put
on your reasonableness pants" and gave them two weeks to work something
out. She extended the deadline to April 25. Musk and the SEC on that date then
asked for five more days to continue discussions. The judge had urged both sides to try to eliminate
ambiguities in the earlier settlement, which required Musk to get internal
approval before issuing some tweets. By reaching a compromise, Musk avoids more
penalties while the SEC affirms the Tesla CEO’s obligation not to release
misleading information on social media. Musk and the SEC have been fighting since the CEO tweeted
August 7 that he had "funding secured" to take Tesla private, sending
the shares surging. After an investigation, the regulator sued, saying Musk had
misled investors. Musk and Tesla ended that dispute by agreeing to each pay $20m,
without admitting wrongdoing. 'Twitter sitter' The regulator argued that Musk was required to have his
tweet approved in advance under the terms of the settlement. Musk’s attorneys
countered that the post wasn’t material and that the Tesla CEO has been
complying with the accord. This past weekend, Musk repeated his February claim,
responding to another Twitter user’s post by tweeting "Tesla will make
over 500k cars in next 12 months." Musk’s social-media troubles don’t end with the SEC. In a
separate case, a federal judge in Los Angeles on Friday said Musk can’t escape
a lawsuit by a British cave rescuer who took offense at being called a "pedo
guy" after he ridiculed Musk’s mini-submarine. The case is US Securities and Exchange Commission v. Musk,
18-cv-08865, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).