Over the past decade, Uber Technologies proved itself to be
one of the most prolific young fundraisers ever. It pulled together more than
$20bn from private investors. After burning through more than half that amount in just the
last three years, Uber will soon see whether it can recreate that magic on the
stock market. The ride-hailing company entered the final stretch of the
ultimate capital-raising exercise on Friday, when it disclosed details of an
initial public offering expected to net the company and its backers another $8bn
or more. Executives and bankers plan to hit the road next week to promote the
stock to public investors and then ring the bell on the New York Stock Exchange
floor on May 10, when the shares start trading, according to a plan obtained by
Bloomberg. Uber Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi and his
lieutenants will be joined by longtime allies from Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs Group on the roadshow, which starts Monday. Over the years, the two banks
helped Uber arrange private debt offerings, convertible loans and equity sales. The company will take its expansive pitch – car rides, food
delivery, autonomous cars, electric scooters, bicycle rentals – from London on
Monday to New York on Tuesday, and then the company’s hometown of San Francisco
on Thursday. The projected IPO value is slightly lower than some early
projections. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs had pitched Khosrowshahi last
year on an IPO value of as much as $120bn. That also happened to be the price
at which the CEO and at least four deputies would earn a substantial
performance bonus. Instead, Uber is currently aiming for $84bn, or $91.5bn on a
fully diluted basis, though that number could change depending on demand. Uber hopes to avoid the fate of its smaller US rival, Lyft.
Lyft has failed to maintain its IPO price, and the stock is down 21%. Uber
intends to take a more cautious tack and manage investors’ expectations, said
people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because the
discussions were private. The approach, though, means it could leave easy money
unclaimed, said Bryan Routledge, associate professor of finance at Carnegie
Mellon’s business school: "The problem with an IPO is you typically sell
your shares too cheap." An Uber video released Friday to promote the stock lacks the
Wes Anderson-style levity of Lyft’s production, but it crams in a similar
number of heavy-handed metaphors to convey a business in forward motion. It’s a
half hour of executives talking up the company’s prospects while walking –
sometimes practically running – toward the camera. The IPO will be the biggest in a busy year on US markets but
not the most unusual. That honour may very well go to Slack Technologies, which
made its offering paperwork public on Friday. Slack and Uber share a common
major stockholder in SoftBank and will list on the same exchange, but they’re
running very different offerings. Slack will directly list its stock in the coming months,
bypassing the process of financial underwriters, roadshows and fundraising.
That’s because Slack isn’t thirsty for more capital. The unprofitable business
is sitting on more than $800m from private investors, which is plenty for a
business that makes chat software. Uber is going the traditional route, in part because it
needs the money. The company’s projections anticipate its nonexistent profit
margins will be even worse this year. But investors should pay more attention
to other numbers, Nelson Chai, the chief financial officer, urges in the IPO
commercial. Gross bookings grew 45% last year, he said. A substantial
driver of that was a metric Uber calls monthly active platform consumers, or
MAPCs, which Chai adorably pronounces as "mapsies." That number increased
to 93 million last quarter, from 70 million a year ago. The securities disclosure Friday included other numbers that
tell a less ascendant story. It offered a range of guidance for last quarter’s
performance, which indicates slowing revenue growth of about 19% to $3.1bn and
a net loss of about $1.1bn.