Retailers are finding all kinds of uses for location data
from customers’ phones. Hill Country Galleria in Bee Cave, Texas, used the
information to determine that a lot of shoppers owned pets. So it installed
water fountains, babysitting stations and "Santa Paws" photo ops for
furry friends. The time customers spent in the mall rose by 40%, according to
CBRE Group. A shopping center in Chicago found it was drawing customers
from Asian neighborhoods, so it decided to fill a vacancy with a high-end Asian
specialty grocer. Dunkin’ Brands Group, which opened 278 new doughnut shops in
the US last year, employed phone data to make sure the new stores wouldn’t siphon
customers from existing locations. Retailers are following the trail of electronic bread crumbs
left by millions of customers. And it’s helping them at a time when the
industry is suffering. They’re buying mobile-phone data that can track where and
for how long people shop, eat, see movies -- and where they go before and
after. It allows them to determine personal details that paint a picture of who
consumers are. That helps them decide what kinds of shops to open and how to
advertise. The information is transforming the business. And it’s
raising privacy concerns. The idea of being tracked by businesses makes some people
uneasy. Every company interviewed for this story said it chooses not to use
information that could identify individuals. But for the most part they’re on
an honor system because rules governing data remain relatively lax. Location data The practice is called location analytics, and worldwide the
industry is expected to grow to $15bn by 2023 from $8.35bn in 2017, according
to mobile-data company Placer.ai. More than half the retailers surveyed last
year said they partner with third-party firms to collect location data. It’s a far cry from the days when mall owners would draw
concentric circles on a map to determine where to advertise. "Historically, we’ve only been able to look at theoretical
behaviors of people," said Alan McKeon, chief executive officer of
Alexander Babbage, which packages and sells location data. "Now we can
look at where we’re actually drawing from, and we discovered that the trade
areas look nothing like we used to think they did." Dropping pins Phone apps gather user data throughout the day, dropping
pins on locations and collecting latitudes, longitudes, time stamps and device
IDs. Aggregators, such as UberMedia, buy the information and sell it to analytics
companies like Alexander Babbage that clean it up for retail landlords to use. Typically, his company pays in the six figures for the data,
McKeon said, while packages for retailers run as low as $15 000. UberMedia says it keeps an eye on 800 million active devices
per month, and has 14 trillion total location observations and 4.5 years of
historical data. To glean details, including an individual’s age, income,
ethnicity, education level, number of children and more, firms connect the
phone’s evening location with US Census data. "We don’t have any information about who owns the
device, so the way that we contextualize the information is we look at where
the phone sleeps at night," McKeon said. Location data isn’t the only thing being tracked. There’s
also psychographic data, which includes a person’s behavior and spending
habits, and social-media chatter. 'Nerd culture' Spatial.ai, a startup that studies online conversations,
collects location data for 72 categories – from "nerd culture" to "farm
culture" – and helps businesses determine whether specific personality
types correlate with sales. Frequent topics in the "hipster" segment,
for example, include antiques, vinyl record albums and coffee. Working with Spatial.ai, shopping-center landlord Brixmor
Property Group identified a lot of online talk about "girls night out"
in the neighborhood of its shopping center in Newtown, Pennsylvania. So Brixmor opened a "female friendly organic concept"
called Harvest Seasonal Grill instead of, say, a steak restaurant, according to
Brixmor CEO Jim Taylor. "You get a much better sense of the commuting patterns
of the community that utilizes your center, and it’s oftentimes quite
revelatory," Taylor said. Privacy concerns are creeping up. As the market has become
more competitive, some providers have started to cut corners, said Laura
Schewel, CEO of StreetLight Data. She said her firm, which studies travel
patterns to help improve urban planning, lost a potential client to a
competitor because it refused to sell "raw trips," or trips by
individuals. StreetLight only sells data about groups of people. That
way, if it were ever compromised, personal details would be protected. "We don’t want to use technology in a way that erodes
trust," said Brixmor’s Taylor. "As a shopping-center owner, you want
to bring in vibrant uses that generate lots of sales, lots of traffic and allow
you to grow rents over time."