British Prime Minister Theresa May is entering the most
delicate and dangerous negotiations of the country’s split from the European
Union (EU) as she searches for a compromise with her political enemies that
will deliver a Brexit deal. With just 10 weeks left before the departure deadline, May
is prepared to blur her red lines to find a plan that will get through
Parliament, according to person familiar with the matter. That could mean
keeping closer ties to the EU, an outcome backed by opposition parties. On Wednesday night, May survived an attempt to oust her
government in a vote of no-confidence 24 hours after her agreement with the EU
was emphatically rejected. She immediately opened talks in an effort to break
the deadlock and must return to Parliament to set out her Plan B by Monday. "The government approaches these meetings in a
constructive spirit and I urge others to do the same," May told the House
of Commons after winning the confidence vote. "But we must find solutions
that are negotiable and command sufficient support in this House." May makes statement outside No.10 after no-confidence vote fails British Prime Minister Theresa May makes a statement outside Downing Street, saying it is her "duty" to deliver on Brexit, after her government survives a no-confidence vote sparked by the crushing defeat of her Brexit deal, just weeks before the ... The pound initially rose on expectations a cross-party
approach would yield a Brexit plan that protects trading links with the bloc. But the prime minister soon discovered that the price of her
opponents’ cooperation could be too high. Rival party leaders quickly began
laying down their conditions for taking part in talks to rescue May’s Brexit
strategy. These included keeping open the option of delaying Brexit
and even a second referendum on membership of the EU. Labour snub Her predicament was compounded as Jeremy Corbyn, leader of
the main opposition Labour party, refused to take part at all. In a televised late-night address, May said she’d held "constructive"
meetings with the leaders of the Liberal Democrats, the Scottish National Party
and Welsh party Plaid Cymru, but she was "disappointed" Corbyn had
declined her offer. May said her door remains open to Corbyn if he changes his
mind. The UK remains locked in a political crisis over its divorce
from the EU with no deal in sight. Officials in both London and Brussels
believe an extension to the March 29 exit deadline is now likely, although May
still won’t contemplate a delay in public. The deal May has spent almost two years negotiating with the
bloc was trounced by 230 votes on Tuesday night. It was the worst parliamentary
defeat for a government in modern British history. May now has little choice but to try to find an alternative
plan that can win the backing of Labour, Scottish National Party, or Liberal
Democrat members of Parliament. These parties favour closer trading ties with the EU than
May has proposed, with Labour – for example – advocating full, permanent
membership of a customs union with the bloc. That is anathema to many pro-Brexit members of May’s
Conservative party. While they backed May in the confidence vote, they will be
quick to denounce any attempts she makes to find a compromise that binds
Britain more tightly to the EU that her original proposals. Stark warnings The support of May’s Northern Irish allies in the Democratic
Unionist Party (DUP) is also conditional on a radical overhaul of her exit
deal. Without backing from all her Conservatives and the DUP, May
risks losing a future vote of no-confidence in the government. That would
potentially trigger the general election Corbyn is seeking. British authorities warn that leaving the EU without a deal
could lead to a recession, with the pound falling as much as 25% and house
prices taking as much as a 30% hit. Already, suppliers to manufacturers are stockpiling just in
case. Corbyn, the Labour leader, said May must rule out a no-deal
Brexit as a precondition for discussions. After a spokesman for the prime
minister later told reporters she was not doing so, Corbyn’s camp said no deal
was being used as "blackmail." It was Corbyn who proposed the no-confidence vote. He said
May is now running a "zombie government." But May survived, defeating
the motion by 325 votes to 306. Time is running short. According to a person familiar with
the matter, the premier is also urgently lining up calls with EU leaders to
discuss the next steps. It’s unclear how much the EU can help. The bloc is willing
to extend the Article 50 negotiating period beyond the summer to find a deal if
necessary, according to diplomats. But on Wednesday, the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel
Barnier, said there’s no way to remove the need for the most contentious part
of the agreement – the so-called backstop plan for the Irish border. 