The
Democratic Alliance is like an athlete who does relatively well for the major
part of a 56km ultra-marathon – despite a small cramp here and there – and, as they
the finish line, around the 53km mark, they begin to lose focus and falter,
forgetting what they entered the race for in the first place. Given its
historic origins and traditional member composition, it was never going to be
easy for this main opposition party to 'up-talk' the African National Congress –
and the parties to the left of it – on some of the key burning issues facing
South Africa. These are often collectively referred to as stubborn 'apartheid
legacy issues', such as racialised wealth distribution, poverty levels in
the black population, unemployment, various manifestations of persistent racist
corporate cultures and discrimination at places of work, education
institutions, and elsewhere in the society, for example. At the
behest of some divisive politicians to the left of it, some black people even
genuinely believe that were it to win power, the DA would bring back apartheid,
rolling back benefits like social grants and abolishing corrective policies
such as BEE and Affirmative Action. The DA's
communication machinery has not been effective at pushing back against such
suspicions and at presenting a clear, solid, defensible alternative policy
stance where it differs with the ANC; outlining how it plans to do things
differently and, importantly, better, to benefit more South Africans. The
result of this failure on the part of the DA is that few people out there can
say with absolute certainty what South Africa should expect were the DA to come
to power. The gulf
that sits between the identity it tries to portray of itself and the image
formed by perceptions in the minds of many South Africans is vast
indeed. The
scapegoat In the
absence of the National Party which, upon collapsing in the aftermath of
apartheid, saw its support base being swallowed up by the ANC and the
Democratic Party, which later became the DA, the DA often finds itself at the
receiving end of accusations linked to the broad 'apartheid legacy issues' and
whatever else went down during apartheid. Many see it as the political heir of
the NP. And it doesn't help whenever any white person who might not even be
associated with the DA does or says anything with overt or covert racist
undertones, as many automatically connect the dots back to the DA. Whenever
this happens, especially if it happens in the DA-controlled Western Cape, the
DA gets pushed against the wall, on the defensive, and almost has to start from
the beginning explaining that it is not racist or does not support racism. Poor
situational analysis Given all
of the above, one would have expected the DA to have invested a lot of
resources, including time, money and energy, into a thorough scenario mapping
of the reputational threats and weaknesses that often come up and push it onto
the defensive. Going by
its public communications alone, there is no indication that any of this has
been done; OR else implementation is poor. First of all, there is no running
away from the ideological and expectational gulf that sits between white and
black South African voters, and the two groups in general. Apartheid has had
many decades to make sure of that. The
everyday lived experiences and aspirations of South African blacks and whites –
both of whom constitute desirable target audiences for the DA – are like sea
and land; they do come into contact with each other but only sparsely and,
often, superficially. In this
way, and while it might seem easy on the surface, the DA probably faces the
most difficult task of any political party in South Africa. While most other
parties, including the ANC, have placed "dealing with apartheid legacy
issues" at the core of their political agenda and electoral offering; the
DA has, necessarily, added the need to gather South Africans of all races – the
land and the sea – around a set of shared values, more or less united in their
diversity. The DA
should therefore expect its journey to bring the land and the sea together to
be a long one. But it must have a two-headed plan. One part of it must persuade
black South Africans that it is a party of the future, inspired only by the
values enshrined in our Constitution, including the Bill of Rights, and the
vision of a South Africa where every man, woman, and child will have a
comfortable place under the sun, irrespective of racial, ethnic, religious background
and gender identity. It also has
to show them that it is committed to addressing the lingering 'apartheid legacy
issues', even though it will not necessarily use the methods tried by the ANC
that have not yielded much results to celebrate for the vast majority of black
South Africans. The other
part must assure whites that they too belong, that South Africa is not less
theirs than it is of black South Africans, but that those who stubbornly harbor
racist attitudes cultivated during apartheid are not welcomed in its fold, as
they do not represent the ideals it wishes to realise. An alternative SA Armed with
a clear plan and sure of the values that underpin it, the DA should be able to
articulate an alternative South Africa. But it mustn't fool itself into thinking
its journey will be a walk in the park. Many things
will be thrown at it, some deserved and others not. But it must know how to
respond firmly and assertively to each one of them. It must
also find a way to make all progressive South Africans dream of a country where
everything that happened in the past, from painful apartheid-era inhumanities
to post-apartheid criminalities in the form of various forms of state capture
and other forms of corruption – all of which have deprived the state of the
resources it needs to deliver crucial services and uplift the lives of the poor
– will not happen again. All brands,
including political party brands, need strong, assertive leaders who are also
credible, firm when they need to be, soft when they need to be, but visionary,
emotionally intelligent, and empathetic. Not ones who cower and retreat when
challenged on issues they firmly believe are right. Anyone who
leads a party with the ambitions of the DA must accept that leadership will
from time to time be a lonely place to be. Everything they wish to see realised
will not necessarily happen during their time. But challenging the hegemony of
a governing party in power for a quarter of a century – especially one in which
a lot more emotional, rather than rational, capital has been invested by many –
will require steel and determination, all underpinned by a clear plan. If the DA
is not prepared to be a leader of our society, it will forever be relegated to
second, even third, position, and spend eternity shouting fruitlessly from
opposition benches. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and
CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation
Managers. Views expressed are his own.