Sticking to your financial plan is frequently
mentioned and emphasised by investment managers and financial planning
professionals. As we know, however, it is easier said
than done – especially after tough financial year like 2018. Let's face it, 2018 was a year to
forget not just locally but also globally. It was identified by a Deutsche Bank
report as the worst year for financial markets globally since 1901. The report
measures a whole range of assets that, among others, include: stocks, bonds,
property, currencies and commodities - ranging from emerging markets to developed
markets; and 90% of all these assets had a negative return for 2018. Don't
lose hope During times like this it is very easy
for investors to get discouraged and lose faith in the financial market's ability
to create wealth. The longer these periods continue for,
such as the last three years on the JSE, the more anxious and fearful investors
become. This results in irrational behaviour and decision-making. However, this
is just the time to stay calm and stick to one’s financial plan and investment
horizon. The most common mistake investors tend
to make, during these tough times, is to liquidate their portfolios or move
them around from one asset manager to the next. This statement must be
qualified further in that if you have been invested for a sufficient period of
time and your return is not in line with the market/benchmark, then moving to
another manger should be considered. On the contrary, moving your portfolio
after you’ve had a negative return or low return, given it was in line with the
market/benchmark, in the first few years of your investment is usually not the
right decision. The only thing you are doing is locking in losses, decreasing
your chances of catching the upswing and incurring additional cost which will
further add to your pain. It's
a process Investors need to understand that asset
management is a process which is designed to be most effective over a longer
period, such as five years, and in some cases even more. Most asset managers, in general, don’t
agree on many things, but they do agree this: the only investment that works is
a long-term investment. So, stick to your investment plan and
investment horizon and don’t get anxious about short-term returns if your
initial goal was to invest your money for longer. Asset management is a process
and there is no guarantee in the first few years in which direction your
portfolio might go. Remember, the best time to invest is
when markets are down and the best time to sell is when markets are up, not the
other way around. Werner
Erasmus is Regional Manager: Gauteng for Overberg Asset Management. Views expressed
are his own.