Theresa May is making a last-ditch attempt to win lawmakers over to her Brexit deal, as the European Union’s own efforts to help her fell short just a day before the UK Parliament vote. Key Developments May said to be
considering backing amendment that would put time limit on backstop, which the
EU has refused Pro-EU lawmakers are maneuvering to give Parliament more
influence over Brexit process May says she's concerned about Brexit being
thwarted The pound edged higher after May's speech before paring gains. Boles Sets Out Plan
for Commons to Take Charge (4 p.m.) Tory Nick Boles has
published an outline of his proposed new law (see 7:15 a.m.). His plan would
give May's government "a few weeks" in which to win the support of
Parliament and the EU for whatever is its Plan B. If that fails, under
Boles's law, the liaison committee of senior MPs would have "a few weeks"
to find an alternative plan that a majority in the Commons could support. If
the Liaison Committee's plan stumbles, Boles's law would force May to request
an extension of the Article 50 Brexit deadline. Boles said his draft law
will be published in full on Tuesday and has the support of "a range"
of politicians from different parties. Prominent Euroskeptic
Field Backs May's Deal (3:30 p.m.) Euroskeptic veteran Frank
Field, who currently sits in Parliament as an independent after a rift with the
opposition Labour Party, said he will back May's deal because there's a risk of
staying in the EU if it doesn't pass. "I now fear there
will be no Brexit unless we go with this deal," Field said by phone. "And
that would be treachery to the British voters." There have already been a
series of "meaningful votes," Field argued, including Parliament
voting to hold the 2016 referendum and the triggering of Article 50. He's had meetings with
other Euroskeptics from across the House of Commons, he said, and is "hoping
some will move" and join him in backing May's agreement. May Said to Weigh Plan
for Backstop End-Date (2:56 p.m.) The government is
considering backing an amendment to May's Brexit deal motion that would put an
end-date on the contentious Irish border backstop arrangement, according to
people familiar with the matter. Conservative politician
Andrew Murrison's amendment is designed to win over euroskeptics who are
worried that the UK will be trapped in the EU's customs rules indefinitely
under the backstop plan for the Irish border. It says that the Withdrawal
Agreement should be "amended to specify that the backstop solution shall
expire on 31 December 2021." May's office is weighing
whether to support it. There's a big problem
though - the EU has repeatedly rejected calls for an end-date to backstop. For
European leaders, such a cut-off point would defeat the point of the backstop
as an insurance policy to avoid a hard border with Ireland. According to one person
familiar with the matter, the government is considering the amendment and hasn't
made a final decision yet. May Hit by Another
Resignation (1:50 p.m.) Another member of May's
government resigned on Monday over her Brexit deal. Gareth Johnson, a
government whip, said in a letter to the prime minister that the backstop "ensures
we will be fettered in our ability to negotiate trade deals with other nations
in the future." Attorney General: May's
Deal Only Way Forward (1:40 p.m.) May's deal represents "the
only politically practicable and available" way to make sure Brexit
happens, Attorney General Geoffrey Cox wrote in a letter to May published by
the government. He advised that while the
European Commission's assurances on the Northern Ireland Protocol make it
politically unlikely for the so-called customs backstop - the insurance
mechanism that kicks in if the Irish border issue cannot be resolved - to
remain indefinitely, it still could by law. DUP: 'Nothing Has
Changed' on Backstop (12:55 p.m.) Nigel Dodds, deputy
leader of the Democratic Unionist Party which props up May's government, said
in a statement the prime minister has failed to secure legally binding
assurances from the EU on the so-called backstop - the most contentious part of
her deal - and that "nothing has changed." "Northern Ireland
would be subject to EU laws with no representation in Brussels," he said. "We
would rely on the Dublin government to speak up for us. Instead of meaningless
letters, the prime minister should now ask for and deliver changes to the
Withdrawal Agreement." The party also seized on
a line from May's speech in Stoke, that a no-deal Brexit could result in "changes
to everyday life in Northern Ireland that would put the future of our Union at
risk." "The prime minister
must explain this comment," Dodds said. "What exactly would the
government be changing? If this is nothing more than scaremongering, then the
prime minister should cease from such foolish talk." Raab Eyes Tory
Leadership (12:15 p.m.) Former Brexit Secretary
Dominic Raab, in a veiled future leadership bid, set out his "convictions''
for the UK's future after Brexit. Raab, who quit the government over May's plans,
won't be voting for her deal Tuesday because he said it would "choke off
the opportunity of Brexit'' by retaining ties to the EU. Raab's speech, taking in
the economy, business, energy markets, striving low-paid workers and the
vulnerable, frequently referenced "leadership'' and a "brighter"
future and he suggested reducing income tax for lower earners. He also floated
the idea that shareholders should be able to vote on executive pay and claw
back earnings from bad investment decisions. "I am convinced our
sights must rest on the long-term interests of the country,'' Raab told the
Centre for Policy Studies in London. "There is no cause for complacency,
but every reason for confidence.'' He denied Brexiters were "chasing
unicorns'' or looking for an unattainable Brexit, joking that London is home to
36 unicorns - or privately-held tech startups. Asked by reporters if he
wanted to be Tory leader in the future, a smiling Raab declined to answer. Labour Rejects EU
Backstop Assurances (11:53 a.m.) Keir Starmer, Labour's
Shadow Brexit Secretary, confirmed that the EU's letter will do nothing to win
over the UK's official opposition to supporting May's deal. "The prime minister
has once again failed to deliver," Starmer said in an emailed statement. "This
is a long way from the significant and legally effective commitment the prime
minister promised last month. It is a reiteration of the EU's existing
position. Once again, nothing has changed." Nobody expected Labour to
back May in Tuesday's vote. But one option May's ministers are pushing for is
to invite Starmer and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn to work with her after she
loses: Ministers Tell May to Ask Corbyn for Help When Brexit Deal Dies May Doesn't Rule Out
Delaying Brexit (11:45 a.m.) May didn't rule out an
extension of the Brexit negotiating timetable, though she repeated her line
that she wants the country to leave the bloc on March 29. "We're leaving
on March 29. I've been clear that I don't think we should be extending article
50 and I don't believe we should be having a second referendum," she says. The key point here is May
was asked to commit that she would never agree to delaying Brexit - and would
only answer in the present tense that she doesn't "think" it's the
right thing to do. May is careful with her words and it's clear she wasn't
ruling anything out for the future. The same applies to May's
point about a second referendum. Here's what we wrote on May's potential Plan
Bs - and the likelihood of a delay to Brexit - back in December: UK's May Is
Hatching Secret Brexit Plan B to Avoid Armageddon May: EU Assurances
Fall Short of What MPs Want (11:40 a.m.) The prime minister
acknowledged that the EU's letter (11:30 a.m.) falls short of the demands of
many lawmakers, but said she's not giving up on getting her deal through
Parliament. She spoke to several members of Parliament over the weekend who
have changed their minds - and now back the deal - because they "recognize
the importance of the decision that is being taken," she said. Talks on a future trade
deal with the EU can start on Wednesday if Parliament backs the deal, she said.
"Fail, and we face the risk of leaving without a deal or the even bigger
risk of not leaving at all." May: Bigger Risk of No
Brexit Than No Deal (11:35 a.m.) May has started making
her speech at a factory in Stoke and she's ramped up her warnings that Brexit
could be reversed if Parliament blocks her deal. Many MPs are worried about the
UK tumbling out of the EU with no deal, and the economic damage that would
cause, she said. "It's now my
judgment that a more likely outcome is a paralysis in Parliament that risks no
Brexit," she said. The warning is intended to persuade Tory Brexiteers to
back May's deal in Tuesday's vote, or risk losing their dream of leaving the
EU. EU 'Not in Position'
to Change Deal (11:30 a.m.) The letter to May from
Jean-Claude Juncker and Donald Tusk, the presidents of the European Commission
and Council, is aimed at reassuring the UK that the EU will do all it can to
prevent the Irish border backstop taking effect - or that if it does it will be
only for a short period. But the two men underline
that nothing can be "inconsistent" with the deal that's been agreed.
Most of the reassurances aren't new and only reiterate what is already set out
in the deal, or in the statement from EU leaders at their summit in December.
The letter says: Commission to "give
priority" to replacing backstop with alternative arrangements, including
possible use of technology to avoid hard Irish border. This is further than the
EU has gone before in saying the backstop isn't necessary the basis of the
future relationship If transition period is extended beyond 2020, the EU would "redouble
its efforts" to conclude trade deal "very rapidly" The UK can
hold the EU leaders to their commitment to find a new arrangement to replace
backstop because this pledge has a "legal value" If backstop became
operational it would be "as short as possible" The EU doesn't want
the backstop because it would be a "sub-optimal trading arrangement for
both sides" Full trade negotiations will start as soon as possible after
Brexit and any deal can be applied provisionally while waiting for
ratification. This means it could enter into force quickly and not be held up
by other countries, which has been the case in other EU trade deals. UK Publishes EU Letter
on Brexit, Backstop (11:15 a.m.) In his response to May's
request for assurances on the so-called Irish backstop, EU President
Jean-Claude Juncker said the provision to prevent a hard border in Ireland
would be "temporary" if triggered, and said the bloc would consider
the use of technology as an alternative arrangement. Significantly, he made no
mention of a time limit on the backstop - something that will not go down well
with lawmakers in London. Government Says Boles
Amendment 'Concerning' (10:50 a.m.) "Any attempt to
prevent the government from meeting all the legal conditions for an orderly
exit at this historic moment are extremely concerning," May's spokesman,
James Slack, told reporters. He was referring to Tory former minister Nick
Boles's announcement (7:15 a.m.) he would submit a draft law aiming to hand the
Brexit process to the most experienced members of Parliament if May's deal is
killed. Slack also said the government
will "shortly" publish the EU's letter containing assurances on the
so-called Irish backstop provision, which is the key obstacle to getting
through the deal through Parliament. May spoke to German Chancellor Angela
Merkel on Sunday about Brexit, and both agreed to remain in contact, Slack
said. McDonnell: Labour's
Focus Is Voting Against Deal (9:25 a.m.) Labour's Shadow
Chancellor John McDonnell told BBC Radio earlier the party's priority is to
vote against May's Brexit deal, and doesn't expect May's statement to
Parliament later Monday to overturn opposition to the agreement. "I doubt it will be
anything more than what we heard before Christmas," McDonnell said. "It
would have gone down a month ago. She's delayed it to get more support - that
doesn't seem to have worked." McDonnell was asked if
Labour would back party lawmaker Hilary Benn's so-called wrecking amendment,
which rejects both May's deal and a no-deal Brexit. McDonnell described it as "perfectly
sound," though his and other colleagues' preference was for a straight
vote on May's deal to "avoid getting tangled up in some of the weeds of
amendments." He also said Labour's
decision to a table a motion of no confidence in the government was "a
matter of when, not if." The party would "watch the balance of forces
in Parliament," he said. "It's going to be quite tumultuous and
anything could happen." Grieve: Public Should
Have Say on May's Deal (9 a.m.) Pro-European Conservative
lawmaker Dominic Grieve confirmed he was among a cross-party group of members
of Parliament planning to publish draft legislation proposing a second
referendum on Brexit, which would include the option to stay in the bloc. Given the opposition to
May's deal from members of Parliament as well as the public, lawmakers risk
being blamed for an "unsatisfactory outcome" when the implications of
leave the EU under May's deal become clear, Grieve told BBC Radio. "If we're going to
leave on those terms, we ought to go back to the electorate and ask if that's
what they want to do - and offer them the alternative of remaining if they've
changed their mind," he said. "That seems to be perfectly democratic." Grieve also said a
no-deal Brexit would cause "immense" economic damage and lead to the break-up
of the UK. Fox: 'Unlikely'
Government Will Win Deal Vote (8:20 a.m.) Speaking to the BBC,
International Trade Secretary Liam Fox conceded that it was "unlikely"
that May's Brexit deal would get through Parliament in its current form. Still,
he expects the prime minister to push on with finding a solution even in the event
of a heavy defeat, though he declined to comment on what her Plan B might be. Fox said lawmakers "have
a duty to make sure we leave the EU and do it in a way that minimizes
disruption," pointing out that other countries including Belgium, the
Netherlands and Ireland have much to lose from a no-deal Brexit - not just the UK. "The public gave a
clear instruction in the 2016 referendum," he said. "We have to honor
that contract and leave the European Union as instructed," he said, adding
that May's Brexit deal is still the best way to do that. May Will Set Out EU's
Assurances (8 a.m.) May will explain to
Parliament on Monday the reassurances that the EU is offering to help persuade
MPs to back the deal, according to Trade Secretary Liam Fox. The EU was expected to
send a letter that makes clear that the much-loathed Irish backstop would only
be temporary if it did come into effect. The letter will insist that the deal
cannot be re-opened, according to Irish broadcaster RTE. Rebels Draft Bill to
Take Control (7:15 a.m.) Members of Parliament who
are opposing a no-deal Brexit will publish a draft law later on Monday aimed at
handing control over the process to senior figures in Parliament, if May's deal
is killed. Tory former minister Nick
Boles announced the move in an interview on BBC radio's Today programme. Under the plan, the
Brexit process would be passed to the most experienced members of Parliament -
on the Commons Liaison Committee, Boles said. The best option would be if May
comes forward with a sensible compromise, such as one modeled on Norway's
relationship with the EU, he added.