The US government shutdown risks putting a dent in both the
dollar and treasuries if it drags on. A quick resolution could do the same. A drawn-out spending battle may collide with the looming
debate over America’s borrowing limit, potentially raising the odds of a US
credit rating downgrade, as occurred in 2011. But some observers reckon the market reaction this time
around would be different: Instead of driving a haven trade into treasuries,
concerns about the US’s growing debt burden could reverse that flow, pushing
sovereign yields higher and the dollar lower. And the consequences of a near-term fix may be much the
same, if it enables even more federal spending. The government has been partially closed for more than a
month. Yet US stocks are up around 9% over that period, while the greenback has
softened only slightly. The 10-year Treasury yield reversed a dip from early in the
new year and is around 2.75%. But as the political deadlock stretches into a
record fifth week with no clear sign of resolution, growth concerns are
mounting and investors are starting to draw lines in the sand. "The more this lingers on, the more that investors are
losing patience with their dollar positions," said Mark McCormick, North
American head of foreign-exchange strategy at TD Securities. "There’s risk
of a downgrade, there’s room for people to cut exposure to US Treasuries." He’s describing a scenario in which the shutdown drags into
March, inflaming the debate over the country’s debt ceiling. For some, that
prospect is reminiscent of the market upheaval surrounding the debt-limit
impasse under the administration of President Barack Obama, when S&P Global
Ratings cut the US’s AAA score. That action fueled a global sell-off in stocks, widened
credit spreads and, ironically, spurred a flight-to-quality trade into US debt. While S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
have each flagged risks of the current shutdown, none say that a downgrade is
imminent. But the "brutal brinkmanship" of another debt-ceiling
standoff could drive volatility in government bond markets similar to that of
2011, according to David Woo, head of global interest rates and economic
research at Bank of America Corporation. Except this time rates could rise, he said, given the "very
large funding requirements of the US government" and waning demand among
foreign official buyers. Economic overflow The situation doesn’t have to get that bad to worry
investors, who are already concerned about how the public sector’s pain may
ripple across the economy. Senate leaders have agreed to votes Thursday on rival
proposals for reopening the government for the first time since the shutdown
began, though it’s not clear either measure can pass. White House Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Kevin
Hassett said that if the partial government shutdown extends through March, the
economy could flatline this quarter. "The longer it lasts the bigger the impact it has on
growth for the US overall, in an environment where you’re already seeing slower
growth," said Chuck Tomes, a portfolio strategist at Manulife Asset
Management. If the shutdown were to start hitting consumer or business
confidence, that would be a signal to cut back on credit exposure, he said. In
this event, Tomes expects that Treasuries could still benefit from
flight-to-quality trade. But Tomes says even if the shutdown is resolved this month,
he doubts it would be "a significant positive that would unlock another
leg higher in risk assets overall." Moreover, in his view, a near-term solution may be
detrimental for Treasuries and the dollar if it unleashes more government
spending. "To get foreign investors to continue to purchase that
issuance then you’d either need higher yields or lower valuations for the
dollar," he said. Knee-jerk bounce For his part, TD’s McCormick sees potential for a "knee-jerk
dollar bounce" on a shutdown resolution, but he expects the US currency to
weaken in 2019 as the market focus shifts to other political challenges. The debt ceiling is only one concern in a list ranging from
Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of President Donald Trump, to
the U.-China trade war, the ratification of the new North American trade deal
and a weaker growth environment. That said, the shutdown has allayed at least one problem for
markets, according to Gautam Khanna, senior portfolio manager at Insight
Investments in New York. Certain economic indicators are delayed, and a lack of new
data may give the Federal Reserve cover to skip an interest-rate hike in March. It "could be a good reason for them to pause without
spooking the market regarding growth."