One out of every six Britons has begun or is likely to start stockpiling
food and medicine as worries grow that the UK will leave the European Union in
March without a deal, a survey shows. Consumers are taking matters into their own hands as they prepare for a
parliamentary vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit agreement, which
appears headed for defeat. While the government puts aside more than 2 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion) of funding for Brexit planning, and supermarkets and
businesses stockpile goods, many households fear the effects of a chaotic EU
exit. Four percent of more than 1 100 people surveyed have begun stockpiling
and 13% are likely to store goods, according to data from Kantar Public,
compiled January 10 through 14 and provided to Bloomberg. The total of 17% is up 2
percentage points from a previous survey in October. UK prepares for no-deal Brexit with mass truck convoy Britain's government sent a convoy of 87 trucks on a test-run from a little-used airport to the country's main trading gateway to continental Europe on Monday -- a rehearsal for the upheaval of a no-deal Brexit that was mocked as a clumsy waste of mo Men are three times more likely to squirrel away provisions than women
and more 18- to 24-year-olds have stored food and medicine than any other age
group. Sales of cupboard food have jumped 30% from a year earlier, with jarred
vegetables up 16%, according to Kantar, a research firm that’s owned by WPP. Tesco and Marks & Spencer Group each raised concerns over
their ability to stockpile fresh fruit and vegetables in the runup to the March
29 Brexit deadline, so shoppers are laying in alternatives. Brexit is also making people cautious in other areas. Thirty percent have
reduced spending, or are likely to, on leisure activities and eating out, the
survey shows. Ten percent are looking for new employment, as Jaguar Land Rover
and Ford Motor Co. have announced they’ll cut thousands of jobs in response to
a sales slowdown in Europe that’s been exacerbated in the UK by side effects of
Brexit.