President 

Cyril Ramaphosa said he has "full confidence" in Reserve Bank Governor 

Lesetja Kganyago, and that the bank should have sole responsibility for setting interest rates. "Governor Kganyago is doing extremely well," Ramaphosa said in an 
interview with Bloomberg TV at the World Economic Forum in Davos, 
Switzerland, on Wednesday. "We are very, very pleased Governor Kganyago 
is where he is. He understands our economy." Ramaphosa’s comments could suggest that he would consider 
reappointing Kganyago for another five years when the governor’s current
 term ends in November - provided he is still president after elections
 in May. He declined to comment in the interview on whether he would 
offer the governor another term, saying the matter still needed to be 
discussed. Kganyago, a former head of the National Treasury, said in a 
separate interview he would be available to stay on. Prescribing policy An election manifesto from the ruling African National Congress 
presented this month states that the Reserve Bank must consider the 
impact of monetary policy on economic growth when it targets inflation. That had raised concerns among investors that the party was prescribing 
policy to the Reserve Bank. Kganyago has responded that the party’s call
 was unnecessary because it already took growth and jobs into account 
when it set monetary policy. “Interest rates are a decision of the central bank; as the 
government, we have to live with it,” Ramaphosa said when asked if he 
was happy with the Reserve Bank’s 25 basis-point rate increase in 
November. “There is nothing wrong in a political party expressing a 
point. I have been very clear on saying the independence of the bank is 
sacrosanct.” Credit-ratings companies have singled out the central bank’s 
independence as a sign of institutional strength in the country, even as
 other government bodies such as the tax collection agency and the 
prosecuting authority were hollowed out during 

Jacob Zuma’s presidency. The central bank’s focus on price growth has 
drawn criticism in the past from political parties and labor unions who 
say it should do more to foster growth - which hasn’t exceeded 2% annually since 2013 - and promote job creation. Ramaphosa also said steps were being taken to fix Eskom, the state power utility which is mired in debt and is battling to 
produce enough electricity to meet demand. Throwing money at Eskom isn’t
 the only solution to its problems and more work needed to be done to 
ascertain exactly what was going wrong, he said.