At this time of year, Carlos Ghosn would normally be
hobnobbing with the global elite at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Instead,
he’s languishing in a Tokyo prison. Now the ousted Nissan Motor chairman is making a last-ditch
effort to win release on bail by pledging to remain in Japan before his trial
for alleged financial misconduct. He’s even offered to wear an electronic
tracker and be monitored by private security guards, both at his own expense. "I will reside in Japan and respect any and all bail
conditions the court concludes are warranted," Ghosn, 64, said in a
statement. "I will attend my trial not only because I am legally obligated
to do so, but because I am eager to finally have the opportunity to defend
myself." Ghosn has been in custody since November 19, accused of
financial crimes that could put him behind bars for decades. The auto titan has been indicted for understating his income
at Nissan by tens of millions of dollars and transferring personal trading
losses to the carmaker. Nissan also claims that Ghosn misused company funds,
including for homes from Brazil to Lebanon, and hired his sister on an advisory
contract. Ghosn has denied wrongdoing. Sudden fall His downfall, as sudden as it was unexpected, has roiled the
two-decade alliance between Nissan and France’s Renault SA, which he dominated
as chairman of both companies and of the entity that governs their partnership. France’s finance minister and Nissan CEO Hiroto Saikawa were
both quick to downplay a report in the Nikkei newspaper over the weekend that
the French side was planning to put the two carmakers under one holding
structure. During two decades astride the global auto industry, Ghosn
became one of the most celebrated corporate chieftains of his generation,
epitomising an elite cadre of brash, jet-setting industrialists focused
squarely on the bottom line. He was seen as the quintessential Davos figure, someone on
the A-list of the global economic summit in the Swiss ski resort. The annual
event kicks off Tuesday. While Nissan fired Ghosn almost immediately, he still
retains his posts at Renault and at the alliance – though probably not for much
longer. Michelin Chief Executive Officer Jean-Dominique Senard is
expected to join Renault’s leadership, people familiar with the matter have
told Bloomberg News. Renault’s executive board may meet on Wednesday and name
Senard non-executive chairman and head of the alliance, and at the same time
appoint Thierry Bollore as Renault’s CEO, Le Figaro reported Sunday. Bollore is currently acting as CEO on an interim basis. A
Renault spokesman declined to comment. Tensions are simmering on both sides of the alliance because
of its lopsided structure. While Nissan has outgrown Renault in sales and
profits, the Japanese company has far less influence. It owns 15% of Renault, which in turn has 43% of Nissan.
France is Renault’s most powerful shareholder, with a 15% stake, extra voting
rights and two seats on the board. Mitsubishi Motors was added to the alliance in 2016. Alliance angst A delegation including Martin Vial, a Renault director
designated by the French state, visited Japanese officials including Saikawa in
Tokyo last week. According to people close to the delegation, the discussions
focused on possible ways and ideas to cement the Renault-Nissan alliance, with
the creation of a single holding company for both carmakers being one of the
options. The people emphasised that no proposal was made at the
meeting and it’s too early to discuss concrete plans, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are confidential. Bruno Le Maire, the French finance minister, downplayed
prospects for a change to the alliance. "No shareholding re-balancing or modification of cross
shareholdings between Renault and Nissan are on the table," he told
Journal du Dimanche in an interview published Saturday. He reiterated that France wanted "solid and stable"
governance at the helm of the company. The alliance partners aren’t yet at a stage where they can
further discussions on their capital relationship, and Renault has to sort out
its management structure before the two boards can have a thorough discussion,
Saikawa told reporters on Monday. Saikawa said he hadn’t heard that the French government has
proposed a merger of Nissan and Renault. While Nissan wants to maintain the partnership, it will
likely resist any push toward a full combination, another person familiar with
the matter said. Ghosn had been pushing for a closer integration before his
arrest, including a possible merger that Bloomberg reported last year, but
Nissan has balked. Nissan is also said to be considering doing away with the
chairman’s title, a move that would deprive Renault of some of its influence. Surrendering passport Ghosn’s lawyers made a fresh application for bail on Friday,
after a court last week rejected his previous request. He should find out if
it’s accepted on Monday evening Tokyo time, according to a person close to
Ghosn’s family. If released, he’s willing to surrender his passport, offer
shares as collateral and refrain from contact with anyone who could be a
witness against him, said Devon Spurgeon, a family spokeswoman. Ghosn’s previous requests for release envisioned him heading
to France, where he’s a citizen, before returning to Japan for trial. Even a highly-restricted release would allow Ghosn to more
easily prepare for trial. As is customary in Japan, while in custody he’s been
extensively interrogated without his lawyers present, and has no access to
documents that could help him construct a defense. He has also been barred from seeing or communicating with
his family.