Stocks in Asia climbed as a rally in technology shares
outweighed conflicting signals over US-China trade progress. The dollar slipped
against all major peers bar the yen. Shares rose across the region alongside European and US
futures. Technology companies led the way following a strong US session for
chipmakers. Sentiment remained fragile as Secretary of Commerce Wilbur
Ross said the world’s two biggest economies remain "miles and miles"
apart on trade, though White House economic adviser Lawrence Kudlow later said
President Donald Trump is optimistic about the trade talks and spoke positively
about the January jobs report. The pound climbed on reports Northern Ireland’s Democratic
Unionist Party has privately agreed to back the Brexit deal. Meantime, Treasuries edged lower after Thursday’s climb,
while oil rose for a third day as a deepening crisis in Venezuela that
threatens to complicate OPEC’s task of balancing world oil supplies
overshadowed a surprise jump in US crude inventories. Global equities are rounding out the first down week in five
as investors question the pace of the post-Christmas rally and earnings season
rolls on. Traders are scrambling for hints at progress in trade talks
ahead of discussions next week in Washington and are assessing the economic
impact of the longest government shutdown in US history that’s hampering the
normal flow of growth data. The Senate voted down a measure Thursday that could have
ended the deadlock. "I’m reasonably positive," Axel Merk, chief
investment officer at Merk Investments LLC in San Francisco, told Bloomberg TV.
"I don’t think we have an imminent recession which is usually one of the
key ingredients to a real bear market, but it’s prudent to diversify." Elsewhere, Australian bonds extended gains amid worries on
economic growth. Venezuelan bonds earlier built on their rally on speculation
President Nicolas Maduro’s opponents will gain momentum in their efforts to
oust him. These are the main moves in markets: Stocks The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1% as of 13:17 Hong Kong
time. Japan’s Topix Index rose 0.9%. Futures on the S&P 500 Index added 0.5%
after the underlying gauge rose 0.1%. Hang Seng Index added 1.3%. Shanghai
Composite index gained 0.7%. Euro Stoxx 50 futures rose 0.5%. Currencies The yen fell 0.1% to 109.75 per dollar. The offshore yuan
added 0.2% to 6.7825 per dollar. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index slipped 0.2%.
The euro traded at $1.1324, up 0.2%. The British pound rose 0.5% to $1.3132. Bonds The yield on 10-year Treasuries rose one basis point to 2.73%.
Australia’s 10-year bond yield dropped six basis points to 2.21%. Commodities West Texas Intermediate crude rose 1.3% to $53.84 a barrel.
Gold held at $1 282.08 an ounce.