The Council for Medical Schemes plans to disallow low-cost
benefit options for healthcare to better align offerings of medical schemes and insurers to
National Health Insurance policy. The medical schemes regulator on Wednesday issued a circular,
signed off by its chief executive and registrar Dr Sipho Kabane, informing the
public of its plans. "The
purpose of this circular serves to inform medical schemes, insurers and other
interested parties that no Low-Cost Benefit Options (LCBO) will be allowed for
low-income market segments going forward," Kabane said in the circular. "This decision is to align such products with the
broader health policy discussion that seeks to ensure adequate access to care,
irrespective of the economic status of the population," the circular read. In August this year, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize tabled the National Health Insurance bill before Parliament. NHI is a policy that will ensure the provision of universal
healthcare access to South Africans subscribed to the fund. Government wants it
to be fully implemented by 2026. In the circular Kabane outlined why low-cost benefit options
were first introduced – these healthcare options were targeted to a "specific
group of the population", low-income households so that they would be able to afford medical scheme cover. Generally, these households
cannot afford high medical scheme premiums – the premiums paid determine the quality
of benefits medical scheme members can receive. While higher premiums covered
"richer" benefits, there was an opportunity to offer lower-income earners "inferior benefits," according to the Council for Medical Schemes (CMS). "Mainly, such products potentially use the State as a designated
service provider without entering into the necessary agreements with the State
and lack prescribed minimum benefits," the circular read. However the South African economy has come under "a lot of
strain" and higher levels of unemployment suggests that a low-cost
benefit option for low-income earners could be difficult to realise, according to the CMS. The CMS has since been working with the prescribed
minimum benefits committee – and developed a prescribed minimum benefits package with a specific focus on primary healthcare (PHC). Prescribed Minimum Benefits or PMBs are a set of
defined benefits that ensures all medical scheme members have "access to
certain minimum health services", regardless of their benefit option, according
to the CMS. "In addition, the CMS considers the proposed PHC package as a
basis for the discussions that will lead to the development of an affordable
and quality healthcare financing package to citizens of South Africa," the
circular read. "The CMS has been undergoing an extensive review
process of the benefit composition and costing of the PMB package which medical
schemes must offer all its members, with the emphasis on PHC. "The CMS considers the proposed PHC package as a more
direct and efficient manner in which to bring affordable and quality healthcare
financing packages to citizens of South Africa, as opposed to the current low-cost
benefit option considerations and demarcation products on the market," the
circular read. Compiled by Lameez Omarjee