From January 2020, business-savvy youth from the Cape Town suburbs of Khayelitsha, Mitchells Plain, Mfuleni and surrounding areas will have the opportunity to engage in an in-depth, hands-on learning experience of the tech tools available to aid in the growth and development of their businesses. Run by the Cape Innovation & Technology Initiative (CiTi) the free, 10-week Youth in Business programme will equip these young people with the skills necessary for their companies to become economically sustainable.  Training will be hosted at the Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn, situated in Lookout Hill and will see three cohorts, each comprised of 35 youth-owned businesses, being introduced to an extensive, tailored range of powerful online and digital programmes and platforms to support their business activities. Areas covered will include admin, finance, accounting, tax, e-commerce, graphic design, document management, digital marketing, social media, HR, project management, legal advice, payments, banking and more. Young entrepreneurs will also take part in an online programme that will run for 10 months to help them improve their entrepreneurial skills and build their businesses. Plus, they will be exposed to networking opportunities with other businesses, industry experts and coaches to assist them in growing their businesses as well as attend other ecosystem events and networking opportunities. Additionally, they will have access to the co-working space and lab at Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn. To qualify for a spot in the Youth in Business programme, applicants must meet the following criteria: Those who are eligible must submit their applications on the CiTi website and follow the Khayelitsha Bandwidth Barn Facebook page for news and updates. Once the application is received, potential participants will be invited to a telephonic and/or in-person interview, which will determine whether they will be selected to take part in the programme. The programme is fully funded by the Department of Economic Development and Tourism, so there is no cost to participate. Applications close on Friday, December 20, 2019. 