Times are tough and over-indebted consumers are pulling back
on buying, leading to entrepreneurs facing increasingly challenging
circumstances. A whopping 90% of entrepreneurs surveyed in a new report
said that business was tough. Others said they were having to take pay cuts just to
survive. The Retail Capital Roll with the Punches report
surveyed over 700 entrepreneurs. According to the report, SMEs must work smart and make changes
if need be, because it is not "business as usual". Business unusual About 90% of the entrepreneurs surveyed said they were
experiencing tough business conditions. Related to this, 58% of respondents
said during tough times they were forced to take no salary at all, or else a or
a reduced salary, in order to pay overheads. It was not only the business owners who suffered. A total of
17% reduced staff hours or pay and 10% retrenched some staff. Financial troubles About 58% of respondents said they found banks to be
"unsupportive". Furthermore, 40% of respondents said they had no insurance
at all. Just 19% feel they are adequately covered; while 13% said they cannot
afford their premiums. Outside influences Entrepreneurs also said they were battling external factors.
About 55% of respondents said demand is shrinking due to people not buying as
much. A total of 58% said rising operating costs were a threat to their
business, while 15% said they are affected by strikes and labour laws. Some 29% said they are affected by theft or fraud. 'Brutal' "There is no doubt that this is one of the most brutal
operating environments that we have experienced in a long time, and which is
significantly affecting our SMEs' ability to trade, grow, employ and contribute
to the economy," commented Karl Westvig, CEO of Retail Capital. However, he encouraged business owners to stick it out if
possible. "While I appreciate how hard it is, entrepreneurs need
to see through the curve: what happens now doesn't mean it will happen in six
months' time. "Stay the course and dig deep, there are no shortcuts.
It's going to be tough but put in the time and ride it out until you come
through on the other side." * Compiled by Carin Smith