South Africa’s third-quarter GDP figures say it all. A
contraction of 0.6% means that the country is, once again, flirting with a
recession, should the fourth quarter be similarly negative. The GDP numbers mirror the dismal unemployment figures
and the broader issues of rising debt-to-GDP, falling business confidence
sentiment and an ongoing battle to keep-the-lights-on, both literally at Eskom
and figuratively among a host of ailing SOEs. More forgiving commentators have spoken about the
carefully nurtured strategy of President Cyril Ramaphosa to incrementally
direct reforms across a wide variety of governmental sectors. They point to the broad-based recovery of
institutional integrity – particularly at the NPA, the Hawks, the South African
Revenue Service and in the reconstitution of a host of SOE boards. A better
governance ethic is apparent while the PR machine aimed at the investor
community is gaining traction, albeit largely when flashy investor summits
occur. Yet despite these not insignificant shifts, nothing
from the past year seems to be having any direct impact on the performance of
the domestic economy. While re-booting a state from an incapable status to one
that is more capable can take many years thanks to the rot of malfeasance, time
is of the essence for a country desperately in need of economic growth. The poor GDP figures are likely to add to the tangible
degree of frustration and concern increasingly being echoed from key government
ministers. The rhetoric of both Finance Minister Tito Mboweni and
his deputy, David Masondo, in recent weeks has sharply focused on the need to
reform – particularly on the government sector wage bill and a greater push to
involve the private sector in the domestic economy. Both issues cut to the
heart of the ideological straitjacket which has prevented the broader ANC alliance
from being more pragmatic with policymaking in recent years. It’s a pretty rude awakening for the broader ANC
though. The party has spent the last 25 years decrying the
exploitative nature of the business community while attempting to be a
guarantor of jobs for pals – and pals of pals too. The centralised and
nationalist philosophical orientation of the ANC has veered towards over-regulation
and over-employment – both recipes for economic disaster in the medium-to-longer
term. It’s all pretty unpleasant when you have believed this
to be right – yet are now confronted with the harsh reality of the damage it
has caused. Add a massive dose of state capture, deep policy uncertainty (and
investor suspicion) on land expropriation and the NHI to all of this, and you
have a clear recipe of the state of the nation today. On the cusp The ongoing inability to deal with South African
Airways – an SOE representative of so many of the factors in the broader
macro-environment – points to the increasingly lack of confidence that
government is able to tackle the necessary issues and face its own internal
music. With barely six weeks to go before the 2020 Budget,
there is a sense that some sort of policy-framework climax is being reached. With
the ratings’ agencies on the cusp of a full downgrade, the potential capital
outflows and resultant knock-on effect into the currency and equity markets, there
is now no time to waste. Indeed, it would seem as though the country has a rapidly
closing window of opportunity in which to make bold moves. Whilst accelerated economic decline will be the
outcome of a failure to act, these are now high stakes times for President
Ramaphosa and his faction within the ANC. Continued economic decline is likely to exacerbate an
internal debate within the ANC over economic policy. While institutional repair
is one pillar of the Ramaphosa revival, should the economy not bear similar
fruit, those supporting the "New Dawn" narrative may increasingly
drift to other political postures. President Ramaphosa therefore finds himself in a double
bind. Cleaning up the State requires a fearless NPA and the political will act
against powerful vested interests very much still at the centre of power in the
ANC. However, in addition, a broader economic meltdown
opens the door for a new murkier and even sinister narrative to emerge within
the ANC which is likely to be much more populist and possible demagogue-esque
in nature.  It’s hardly an atmosphere
conducive to a relaxing Christmas break for President Ramaphosa. As we move into early 2020, it’s now clear that
substantive structural reforms are required. The political demons of
privatisation and job-shedding have to be addressed. And critically, this means
that the ANC – and Cyril Ramaphosa – have to acknowledge that their next few
years will be fraught with managing and navigating austerity-style policies
which will also put a strain on the broader alliance and South Africans alike. These demons require very rapid attention as the ANC
moves towards a crucial 2021 local government poll in which it cannot afford to
preside either over the deteriorating economy or a combustible internal
Alliance fracas. South Africa’s relatively short election cycles between
national and municipal heap pressure when substantive yet polarising reforms
are required. Simply put, if you wait too long to institute the
tough reforms needed, you can miss your window for reform as political factors
like elections loom large. And with the large shopping list of reforms
required, time is now narrowing to complete the most urgent of these. Perhaps, therefore, as President Ramaphosa settles
down to a Christmas season, the best advice for him would be to stop being so
careful of his own shadow. There are many South Africans – well beyond the
narrow confines of the ANC – who will support him should he choose this course.
But be warned, failure to take political risk in the very short term will lead
to much greater political risk for both the president and the country. Daniel Silke is a political analyst, author and keynote speaker. Views expressed are his own.