The Cape Town metro saw the highest prices paid for residential property in South Africa this year, according to Ross Levin, managing director for Seeff Atlantic Seaboard and City Bowl. There were about 50 high-value sales of between R20m and R60m in Cape Town during the year, says Levin, adding that 9 of the top 10 suburbs in the country are in Cape Town. These all boast a median price of over R10m (over R20m in Clifton). The median value means half of the homes sold for more and half for less than that. For the 12-month period to the end November the average transaction value in Cape Town was R2.2m. Over the same period the Pretoria metro had an average price of R1.2m. While the average sale price in Johannesburg was R1.483m, in the suburb of Sandton the average was R2.3m. In Durban the average sale price was just over R1m. Examples of some high-end sales in Cape Town in 2019: Fresnaye - R100m The largest sale made by RE/MAX during the year was a R100m sale of the four-level Villa Soleil in the Atlantic Seaboard suburb of Fresnaye. It has 5 bedrooms, 2 swimming pools, entertainment areas (indoors and outdoors), a gym with suspended dance practice floor, a theatre, a "night club", and an enclosed astro-turf pitch.  Uninterrupted views of the ocean (Supplied) The main stairway is suspended in a steel and glass "box" over the pool. Access is also possible in a glass lift which travels "through" the pool. From the living areas with their uninterrupted Atlantic Ocean and horizon views, the pool creates the impression of "floating" above the surroundings. The top level is home to the master suite which is accessed via a concealed panel in the hallway. It has its own deck, heated pool and fireplace and the walk-in dressing room provides 20 meters of cupboard space.  The master suite has its own deck (Supplied) Water is collected from an underground source as well as rainwater off the roof, which is then purified. Solar panels and heat pumps supply air conditioning and heating. State-of-the-art automation manages the blinds, security, internet and communication systems. Bantry Bay - R65.m Dogon Group Properties sold an apartment at The Bantry in Bantry Bay for R65.5m. The 431m² apartment has three bedrooms, four bathrooms, a study, chef's kitchen, wine cellar and direct lift access.  The property is on the edge of the ocean (Supplied) It is perched on the edge of the Atlantic Ocean with uninterrupted views that almost give the impression of "floating on the ocean". Dogon Group also sold a property situated in Higgovale to an international businessman for R85m. According to Denise Dogon, CEO of Dogon Group Properties, the property is situated on over an acre of land – making this the largest residential erf in the City Bowl. The property boasts a main house with two kitchens, study, four large en suite bedrooms and a large living area with views down to the CBD and Table Bay. Apart from the main building, there are two separate guest suites, a gym, a pool pavilion adjoining the 25 metre long heated swimming pool, and a rim-flow jacuzzi. Hout Bay - R37m Seeff sold three a property forming part of the exclusive Kerzner Estate in Hout Bay for R37m during the year. The development, consisting of 48 houses, was launched by Sun City founder and hotel magnate Sol Kerzner and his daughter Andrea in 2018.  One of the houses on the Kerzner Estate (Supplied) The 10ha Kerzner Estate is located high on the slopes of Leeukoppie with stunning views towards Chapman's Peak, the bay, valley and mountains.  Interieur of a house on the Kerzner Estate (Supplied) Developed as an eco-estate, each plot is around 1 500m². The 48 luxury houses feature unique designs using of natural building materials and tailored to suit each individual site. House sizes range from 374m² to 738m². Bishopscourt - R27m Pam Golding Properties sold a mansion in Bishopscourt for R27m. The property boasts some of the best views in this southern suburb of Cape Town.  Garden view of the Bishopscourt property (Supplied) Newlands - R22m Knight Frank sold a property in Cape Town's southern suburb of Newlands for R22m. The classic Georgian double-volume home is situated in the exclusive Newlands Village section of the suburb. The property is described as a spacious yet secluded home for upscale out-door entertaining. The 600m² home is set on 1 000m² grounds in a quiet cul-de-sac with views of parklands.  The secluded garden (Supplied) 