The Johannesburg High Court has reserved judgement on the
Old Mutual appeal case for 2020. However, lawyers of axed CEO Peter Moyo say
it’s already a forgone conclusion that it is an "unwinnable" battle. Representing Moyo, Advocate Dali Mpofu said Old Mutual
failed to convince the appeal court why it should interfere with Judge Brian
Mashile’s July ruling that the insurer must reinstate Moyo. Old Mutual is
appealing that July order in front of a full bench of three judges. The insurer changed gears on Thursday and told the court
that Moyo was afforded some form of hearing. Judge Mashile’s July order that Moyo
should be reinstated was based on the argument that insurer did not afford him
a disciplinary hearing. During his closing remarks on Thursday, Advocate Gilbert
Marcus, representing the Old Mutual board, said Moyo was afforded a hearing
before his contract was terminated. "It is not that Mr Moyo was afforded no hearing at all;
the complaint goes to the form of the hearing. He contends it had to be in a
disciplinary hearing," said Marcus. Old Mutual spokesperson, Tabby Tsengiwe, said when the board
started engaging Moyo about the dividend payment at NMT, he was given numerous
chances to state his side of the story. Old Mutual's court papers detail that
the board held several engagements with Moyo from March until the day before he
was suspended on May 23. However, no engagement took place between that suspension
and Moyo's eventual sacking on June 18. Tsengiwe said that as Old Mutual has
consistently argued in court, it was not required to have any other form of
hearing at that stage because Moyo was fired on notice. Marcus said while he raised the occurrence of those
engagements with the board, Old Mutual maintained that it did not have to give
Moyo any hearing, given the notice clause under which he was fired. Moyo, however, said not at any point was he made aware that
his engagements with the board amounted to some form of hearing. He said the
company only told him that it wanted to understand certain things about NMT and
throughout those engagements with the board, he never had to answer any
questions about his personal conduct. "They spoke to me because they needed information from
NMT. They came back and said they were not happy with some of the information
they received and then asked questions. Even on the last day, at the board
meeting when I walked in, Paul Baloyi said, 'Speak to us as colleagues'. 
At no point did I believe I was actually having a hearing." Judge Mashile said Moyo was supposed to be afforded a
hearing or arbitration since the insurer had publicly accused him of conflict
of interest and gross misconduct. Old Mutual, however, cited breakdown in trust and confidence
when it handed him the dismissal letter. The conflict of interest and gross
misconduct related to Moyo’s handling of payment dividends at NMT. NMT, the
private equity boutique that Moyo co-founded, declared two sets of ordinary
dividends in 2018 before paying Old Mutual’s preferential dividends or
preferential capital that was due for repayment.