Fierce
competition launched in the banking sector by the likes of Tymebank, Discovery
Bank and African Bank has proven to be what consumers needed to get better
treatment. According
to Solidarity’s 10th annual bank charges report released on Tuesday, banks are
now offering better benefits to their customers at lower prices to protect
their market share. "Banks
attempted to be winners in the market with a combination of better benefits and
reduced bank charges," said Monica Mynhardt, researcher at the Solidarity
Research Institute. The
findings of the report should not be a surprise, given that three of the big
four banks either launched zero-fee accounts or cut prices on their entry level
products earlier this year. Absa
was the only bank that chose not to cut fees on its entry-level day-to-day bank
account in response to Tymebank and other no-fee challengers in 2019. (Its 2020
fee schedule shows that it will be reducing the monthly fee on some of its
products, including the entry-level Transact account.) Nedbank was
the first to join in on the no-fee challenge in March, shortly after Tymebank’s
official launch in February. Tymebank launched its no-fee account in November
but officially went to market in February. Nedbank
responded by launching youth-targeted e-commerce platform, called unlocked.me.
A month later, it dropped the monthly account fees on its pay-as-you-use
(PAYU), which took the number of no-fee accounts to three. Standard
Bank followed closely in May, launching an account that undercut Capitec’s
offering by just 5c. At the same time, it gave new customers more than 10 times
in airtime and data benefits what they pay in monthly fees. In the same
month, FNB slashed fees on its pay-as-you-use account and cut numerous other
fees on its bundled bank accounts. Capitec a winner Mynhardt said Capitec, which is now the biggest in the country terms of
customer numbers, still offered better value than its incumbent peers in two
out of three categories of banking requirements. It was not measured in
the third. The report
does not yet cover the new entrants. It only looked at Absa, FNB, Standard
Bank, Nedbank and Capitec. The
assessment was based on four customer profiles; those who make 12, 17, 25 and
30 transactions each month, ranging from cash withdrawals, purchases and
payments. "Capitec
is still the only bank that offers good interest rates on transactional
accounts, which can help a user with a minimal balance in their bank account
reduce their bank charges even more," explained Mynhardt. She also said
that Capitec remained the cheapest bank for users who have no need to
participate in a rewards programme. Newbies
Tymebank, Discovery Bank and African Bank’s MyWorld also offer interest on
positive balances in the transactional accounts.