The periodic table contains elements familiar to us all: hydrogen, for instance – one of the building blocks of life – and other less familiar natural elements such as copernicium, or the incredibly rare astatine. But none are as rare as hazenile. That’s because hazenile doesn’t exist ... except briefly in the mind of Gwede Mantashe, minister of mineral and energy resources, during September who told would-be investors at an international conference that hazenile – a battery mineral – was to be found in the country’s famed Congo Caves. Like hazenile, the location was also a fiction, invented by an April Fool’s prankster that seemed only to dupe Mantashe’s speech writer.As far as 2019 business blunders went, Mantashe’s was among the most embarrassing; regrettably, though, it wasn’t the most serious. Chemical brothers leave Sasol Worse than talking about a fictional natural element is trying to exploit a real one so poorly that it ends up costing shareholders 50% more than planned. Enter petrochemicals giant Sasol, which in October fired its joint CEOs after the Lake Charles Chemicals Project came in with a price tag of $13.9bn, compared with its initial $8.9bn scoping. Sasol chairman Mandla Gantsho described the resignations of the CEOs as an act of valour, which is sugar-coating par excellence. The fact of the matter is that an oversight so grievous brings into disrepute the organisation as a whole – which is where Old Mutual finds itself. Not going Old Mutual twice served its CEO, Peter Moyo, with a notice terminating his employment. This followed on a row that broke out after Moyo and business associates paid themselves dividends from an investment company, NMT Capital, in which Old Mutual had preference shares. The debate is that Moyo ought to have made sure the preference shares were paid first before pocketing dividends. In any event, the Old Mutual board, led vocally by former finance minister Trevor Manuel, declared a breach of trust that’s proved too serious to stitch up. Manuel, though, mustn’t have counted on the courts, where the matter currently resides, with Moyo’s legal counsel confident he can return to his desk. Good for lawyers, bad for Old Mutual, the identity of which is now severely tainted, according to analysts. Things only worsened in November when Old Mutual was forced to apologise to the family of a client to whom it failed to pay out a funeral policy. The family brought the corpse to an Old Mutual office as proof of death. For Old Mutual, a procedural financial matter threatens to become popular grievance. Just ask Momentum Metropolitan Holdings how damaging this can be after they were forced to pay out handsomely on the life of a murdered policyholder who happened to not disclose all his ailments on his medical history. Take note, Old Mutual: being legally ‘in the right’ doesn’t always make you a winner. Great expectationsThere’s nothing like a great launch, or more embarrassing when expectations fall flat. Take Naspers*, which in June was forced to postpone its Euronext exchange listing after the listing circulars were sent to the wrong shareholders. In terms of listing rules, all shareholders are required to have equal time to dwell on the public offering, but Naspers had incorrectly paired shareholder names to addresses. As a predominantly internet company, one is tempted to blame the postman. Happily, Naspers went for a simple postponement. There was no such opportunity for the launch of Disney Plus. The media behemoth’s streaming channel is making about 500 films and 7 500 episodes of programming available on the new channel. But on opening day in November, viewers were instead greeted with a graphic of a perplexed-looking Wreck-It Ralph, a character from a Disney feature film known for his ham-fisted approach to problem-solving, paired with a network error message. Apparently, the service crashed Disney servers. Anti-social mediaNo annual business blunder feature can be complete without dipping into the shark-infested waters of social media. Take, for instance, the $800m pruning from SnapChat’s share price in March after singer Rihanna objected to an advert that clearly slipped through the social platform’s filters. This was the game ‘Would You Rather’, which advertised itself by posing the question whether users would rather “slap Rihanna or punch Chris Brown”, the singer’s one-time boyfriend who pleaded guilty to court charges of domestic abuse. SnapChat’s failure to properly monitor its advertisements is but an hors d’oeuvre to the truly seismic importance of Facebook’s association with the successful presidential campaign of Donald Trump in 2016. Since then, Team Trump has spent $15.4m a year on Facebook advertising which has been used to make, in the words of Fortune magazine: “... provably false claims about issues like border security, immigration and to spread conspiracy theories such as those against former vice-president, Joe Biden”. The question of how social media marries its business with one of the fundamental questions of democracy – free speech – is being played out in Facebook’s backyard, which makes this a potential business blunder in progress. Appearing before Congress, Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, defended his platform’s choice to allow politicians to potentially spread misinformation in targeted advertisements. His company stood for free expression and “... shouldn’t be making so many important decisions about speech on its own”. It isn’t. Google has subsequently announced restrictions on political advertising and Twitter’s founder, Jack Dorsey, announced he would ban all political ads from his platform. For Facebook, it worries about how, in adjusting its advertising rules, it will alienate groups who depend on it for fundraising and organising. But popular consciousness may be moving against Facebook. Without providing details, former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said Facebook and Zuckerberg should “pay the price” for harming democracy. *finweek is a publication of Media24, a subsidiary of Naspers. This article originally appeared in the 12 December edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.