All three property sectors – residential, commercial and
industrial – are currently experiencing a so-called buyers’ market in the
Western Cape, David Maynier, Western Cape Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC
said on Monday. He was one of the guest speakers at the launch of a comprehensive
report on what is happening in the property sector of the province by bringing
together statistical information on the full spectrum of the property market in
the province. The report was commissioned by Wesgro, the official tourism,
trade and investment promotion agency for Cape Town and the Western Cape. The
first edition looked at the financial year 2018/19. The idea is that it would
form a baseline for similar annual reports going forward. The aim is to provide current and potential investors with a
"one-stop" guide to what is happening in property sectors in key
nodes in the Western Cape. Data for the report was obtained from a variety of sources,
including the Western Cape Government Provincial Treasury’s Municipal Economic
Review and outlook (MERO) 2018, the SA Property Owners Association (SAPOA)
quarterly assessment of various commercial nodes; Lightstone Property’s
overview of residential markets and rental and sales values as they
periodically appear on Property24. Location counts "Property is the key driver of investment.
Infrastructure is often what attracts investment into Cape Town and the Western
Cape," said Maynier. "Location really does count and the report offers an
introduction of the opportunities to be found in sectors from industrial to
residential sectors, taking the guesswork out decision making." Western Cape Premier Alan Winde said at the launch of the
report that business confidence is currently at a critically low point. In his view, research like the Wesgro property report will
help to create the business confidence needed again. "Construction companies are facing tough times, and
many are finding it hard to keep head above water. At the same time, there is
such a massive demand from government to supply infrastructure," said
Winde. "Yet, investors make decisions of where they put their
money and there are lots of places in the world where they can put their money.
Therefore, this kind of report will help them to make those investment
decisions." Even tourists invest He said even tourists are potential property investors. That is why addressing safety as a factor is the first
priority for Winde. Thereafter, to grow the economy in the province by building
"an investment climate". "We have to create the space that is business and
investor friendly. If we do not, then we have some big trouble ahead,"
said Winde. "If we do not get the mix right, then the negatives
will start to outweigh the positives and people will start to invest elsewhere."