The City of Johannesburg recently became the latest victim
of high-profile ransomware attacks specifically targeting government
departments. A network breach was detected and all e-services were shut down. This followed the City Power attack in July, which encrypted
databases, applications and networks, and resulted in users unable to purchase
electricity units for prepaid meters. Ransomware attacks targeting the public
sector have become a trend, not only in South Africa but across the globe, for several
reasons. In order for the public sector to ensure that they can
protect themselves from future attacks, they need to reconsider their security
protocols and practices to make themselves less of a targets and prevent
repeated attacks from occurring. Why are governments being attacked? The simple answer: because they are seen as ideal
organisations to target. Cybercrime is all about the money, and the public
sector is potentially highly lucrative. Despite its name, ransomware is often not only about holding
data to ransom. There is typically a time bomb attached that will destroy the
data if the ransom is not paid. Governments are in possession of large volumes of data and
provide critical services and cannot afford to simply lose their data or have
it exposed. Recovery is often difficult and costly – so much so that the ransom
demands are seen as the lesser of two evils, so a successful attack is more
likely to yield profitable results. These attacks are not limited to South Africa, nor is it a
new occurrence. The attack on the National Health Service (NHS) in the
United Kingdom in 2017 seems to have ushered in an era where threats of this
nature are a frequent occurrence across the globe. In fact, according to an
article in the New York Times, "More than 40 municipalities have been
the victims of cyberattacks this year". In addition, the article states
that 22 cities across Texas were simultaneously held hostage for millions of
dollars after an attack infiltrated their computer systems and encrypted their
data. Investment into security is the only solution Attacks on public sector organisations are quite clearly on
the rise, and ignoring the threat is no longer an option. Once a successful
attack has been perpetrated, it is highly likely that hackers will attempt the
same tactic again because it is a low risk strategy with high potential reward.
The only solution is to invest further in security to close loopholes and
potential vulnerabilities. Often, cyberattacks gain entry as a result of human error,
most commonly by an employee clicking on an infected link or attachment. Consequently, stricter controls need to be put into place
and greater effort placed on education and security awareness. Data itself
needs to be protected via encryption to make it more difficult to steal, or to
use once it has been stolen. Effective backup and recovery solutions also need
to be in place, along with best practice security processes, tools and
maintenance. All systems must be kept up to date with the latest patches,
updates and definitions. Once an attack occurs, a post-mortem analysis is a critical
step in understanding how the incident occurred and what vulnerabilities exist
that need to be addressed. This is the only way to work toward preventing an
attack from occurring again. While every attack is different and its anatomy
and methods may change, it is essential to ensure that the same attack strategy
cannot be used again otherwise the risk of multiple attacks is high. Ultimately, data is the target in ransomware attacks. It is
imperative to understand what data exists, where it is stored, what it is used
for and what the impact is if it is stolen or compromised. If data is not being
effectively managed, then a breach will likely send any organisation into a
tailspin as they scramble to understand what data has been affected and what
the impact is. Prevention is definitely better than the cure.