Nompumelelo (Mpumi) Mpofu has been appointed as new CEO of Airports Company South Africa (Acsa) with effect from February 1, 2020. Majority state-owned Acsa owns and operates nine airports in South Africa. It is majority owned (74.6%) by the government of South Africa and in the financial year ended March 2019, it reported revenues of R7.1bn. According to a statement issued on Wednesday afternoon, she joins Acsa at a time when "the company is charting a fresh course for its future". Daily Maverick reported earlier that Acsa's acting CFO told shareholders at its AGM in early November that Acsa is still investigating the extent of "financial misconduct" under former CEO Bongani Maseko, whose contract was not renewed in November 2018. In 2018, Acsa's irregular expenditure was R39.3m and it increased 161% to R102.6, in 2019. Mpofu is currently director general in the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation in the Presidency. According to the statement, she has extensive experience spanning over 25 years in the fields of transport, infrastructure development, local government and town, urban and regional planning.   In her career in the public service, she has held the position of director general in the Departments of Defence, Transport and Housing. She has served on the boards of the Municipal Demarcation Board, the National Housing Board, the Gauteng Development Tribunal, the National Housing Finance Corporation and the National Home Builders Registration Council. During her tenure as director general in the Department of Transport, Mpofu ensured the development, implementation and monitoring of transport policies and strategies in fields including aviation, rail, maritime, road transport, search and rescue. She was also the leader of the Government Transport Plan for the FIFA World Cup 2010 and oversaw Acsa's airport development and redevelopment programme for 2010. According to the statement, Mpofu was instrumental in the development and approval by Cabinet of the South African Airlift Strategy, which seeks to expand the country's air transport services and to apply a holistic approach to global aviation opportunities to support South Africa's interests. Mpofu holds an honours degree in urban and regional planning, a graduate degree in town planning from Coventry University in the United Kingdom, as well as a certificate in local government management from Oxford University. Fin24 reported in September this year that Acsa's profits fell by 58% in the year to end-March. This was due, in part, to a 50% rise in security costs due to regulatory requirements and heightened security measures implemented during the year. Acsa produced a profit in all but one of the 26 years since the company was formed. It had also received an unqualified audit for the latest financial year and has never needed government support or guarantees. The weak South African economy affected passenger numbers and viability of some local airlines, thereby impacting revenue from commercial activities.