The Public Servants Association wants President Cyril Ramaphosa to immediately release the findings of a judicial commission of inquiry's report into state asset manager the Public Investment Corporation as a "Christmas present". In a statement on Thursday, the union said the immediately release of the report would help avoid leaks. Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko told Fin24 on Friday that Ramaphosa would announce a way forward once he is done studying the report. "The President is still studying the report and will make his intentions known on how he will further process it when he is done," she texted via WhatsApp. Ramaphosa appointed the commission last year to investigate allegations of irregularities at the the asset manager with regard to investments which did not yield results or broke laws. The inquiry was also tasked with assessing the quality of PIC's corporate governance and whether employees were victimised by superiors. The PIC manages over R2.2trn in state workers' funds, and invests on behalf of the Government Employees Pension Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund, among others. The commission, which was chaired by Justice Lex Mpati, met its December 15 deadline to submit its final report to the president, after the deadline was extended three times. The PSA has criticised the delays, and has now asked for the prompt release of the final report. "The PSA is of the view that the release of the report would give majority of public servants, pensioners and beneficiaries a sense of relief and understanding on the state of the PIC where their hard-earned livelihoods are invested," the statement read. It said an immediate release would "curb ongoing speculations of the outcomes as well as leaks that are quite unfortunate and undermine the commission's process and integrity". "To avoid the report being compromised and as a gesture of goodwill and to promote transparency, the PSA requests Cyril Ramaphosa to urgently release the findings from the commission. "Mr President, release the report immediately and give the public servants a well-deserved Christmas present," the union said. 