I have said this before and I’ll say it
again: There was no one better positioned to break the investment strike that
has gripped our country over the past few years than Cyril Ramaphosa. The businessman-turned-president delivered
a very positive State of the Nation Address (Sona) at the beginning of February
that has potential to pave the way for re-igniting our sluggish economy, which
has struggled to attract growth-inducing inward investment. As we count the costs of nine years of
corruption and economic ruin under the leadership of former president Jacob
Zuma, Ramaphosa is providing the spark that has been missing after investors
turned their backs on our country – often arguing that their complaints about
policy uncertainty were falling on deaf ears. In his speech, Ramaphosa gave an update
that shows that his mission to mobilise R1.2tr worth of inward investment over
the next five years is bearing fruit. The Investment Summit hosted in October
last year netted around R300bn in investment pledges from South African and
international companies, he announced. Roughly R187bn worth of deals stemming
from the conference are being implemented, while projects worth another R26bn
are in pre-implementation phase. It appears that investors are getting on
Ramaphosa’s investment bandwagon as foreign direct investment (FDI) is
responding positively to his crusade. Our country netted an inflow of R70bn in
the first three quarters of 2018, compared with FDI inflow amounting to R17.6bn
in 2017. Although it is still early days, this
turnaround is encouraging, considering where we have come from in the last
decade. Prior to the recession that hit the global
economy in 2009, total fixed investment in the SA economy stood at 24% of gross
domestic product (GDP) in 2008. Over the years, it has declined to around 19%
of GDP in 2017. (In 2008, FDI was about R76bn, compared with 2017’s R17.6bn
mentioned above.) The FDI attracted in the first three
quarters of 2018 is almost equal in value to the FDI that we netted in 12
months of 2008 – a sure sign that we are on a road to recovery. This recovery
in investment performance will probably make it possible to realise Ramaphosa’s
vision of generating 275 000 jobs annually. There were two other important
announcements made in the Sona by Ramaphosa that I believe will have a positive
impact on the economy. The first relates to the unbundling of the debt-laden
power utility Eskom and the second to the establishment of an investigative
directorate within the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) that strikingly
resembles the defunct corruption-busting Scorpions. The setting up of the directorate – which
will report directly to the new NPA boss, Advocate Shamila Batohi – will deter
corrupt government officials and their private sector puppet masters from
rigging allocation of tenders behind the scenes, as we have seen in the Bosasa
scandal. With Bosasa, executives were writing specifications for tenders that
were later awarded to the facilities management company and its subsidiaries.
Suppliers going up against Bosasa-earmarked tenders had no chance of ever
clinching the contracts, no matter how compelling their bids were. If Batohi manages to clean up state
procurement and nail bad guys whenever she catches them, she could
single-handedly be responsible for levelling the playing field for bidders
locked out of government tenders by corrupt gatekeepers who have hijacked the
tendering system for their own enrichment. Ramaphosa indicated in the Sona that the
envisaged investigative unit, made up of prosecutors and investigators, will
focus on the evidence that has been emerging from the Zondo Commission of
Inquiry into State Capture, and other commissions and disciplinary inquiries
probing cases of corruption and maladministration. The Scorpions should never have been
disbanded in 2009. They had a high conviction rate and were not scared of going
after high-profile politicians. Zuma himself felt their sting when they
investigated him for corruption. The charges were later dropped, but
re-introduced. Let me deal with the second Sona
announcement, which no doubt must be very exciting to investors who are ready
to pounce on investment opportunities. The announcement of a Presidential state-owned
enterprise (SOE) Council to provide political oversight and strategic
management of SOEs such as Eskom, Denel, Transnet, SAFCOL, Prasa, SA Airways
and SA Express, signals that privatisation is on the horizon. I expect some form of partial privatisation
to introduce private capital in poorly performing SOEs, but blanket sell-offs
of state assets will be fiercely opposed by public sector trade unions.
Whatever the case, a major shake-up in SOEs is coming and it will start with
Eskom. Eskom will be unbundled into three separate
entities – Generation, Transmission and Distribution – under Eskom Holdings.
The restructuring of the state-owned power generator and distributor should
result in the trimming down of its R420bn debt and bloated workforce. From the
consumers’ perspective, they will be hoping that the restructuring will make
load shedding something of the past and that electricity will be delivered to
their homes and businesses at affordable prices. Andile
Ntingi is the chief executive and co-founder of
GetBiz, an e-procurement and tender notification service. This article originally appeared in the 21
February edition of finweek. Buy
and download the magazine here or
subscribe to our newsletter here.