All eyes are on Finance Minister Tito Mboweni, who seems to
find himself at the edge of a cliff with little room for manoeuvre as he makes
his final preparations for the 2019 Budget speech on Wednesday. The pressures on our national purse are immense, from
failing state-owned enterprises and municipalities to a bloated civil service,
failing infrastructure and relentless service delivery demands. Tax revenues
are expected to disappoint and push the budget deficit to almost 5% of GDP. The traditional recourse is to borrow some more but, with
our national debt on the brink of becoming unmanageable and unaffordable, that
door is closing. Many things are rotten in the state of South Africa, and
that flows through to our finances. It is a dire situation that requires
drastic attention. There are two immediate options – raise revenue and/or
reduce expenses – but they may not be financially sensible in the medium term. Are taxes a sure
thing? Hiking taxes may work in the very short term but is likely
to reduce tax receipts over time. South Africa has a small number of
individuals generating the bulk of personal income tax. It is risky to expect
this small group to continue carrying this burden when it seems large chunks of
government expenditure is consumed by corruption, fraud and waste. This applies
to the corporate sector. In general, productive, capable people do not like
pouring money down the drain for ever. Hiking VAT again is completely off the table, politically,
even if no one really registered last year’s increase (not even the inflation
rate, which ended 2018 at a very benign 4.5%). Hiking personal tax rates would
reduce consumption and that would flow through to lower economic growth, fewer
jobs and lower corporate profits and taxes. We must reduce government expenditure. On paper this seems
easy. First reduce corruption, which should immediately eliminate billions of
government expenditure. Reducing South Africa’s relatively bloated and expensive
civil service and state-owned enterprises seems another fiscally obvious
choice. But the challenge that Mboweni faces is that this is politically
unattractive, due to a potential backlash from unions as well as those who are
benefitting from these inefficiencies. This is a pity, since action in this
area would send a positive signal to business and foreign investors, and make
them more likely to invest more in South Africa, create more jobs than are
lost, and grow the economy and the tax base. Mboweni must walk the tightrope between being right or
popular. Sadly, doing the right thing is seldom popular. South African fiscal behaviour, measured by our budget
deficit, has been irresponsible for many years. We spend far more than we earn,
believing that some miracle will wipe out our ever-growing debt burden.
Instead, we should implement sound fiscal management by balancing the budget.
Stamping out corruption and wasteful expenditure would go a long way toward
achieving this. There is no scope to push up company tax rates, not when we
are trying to attract foreign investors. It’s also not realistic to squeeze
more money out of our middle class, which, notoriously, pays amongst the highest
direct and indirect taxes in the world. Spending cuts Nor is Mboweni at all likely to announce significant cuts to
state spending in an election year (or any other year, it seems). The trade
unions – or alliance partners, as they are called before an election – are restless
already after President Cyril Ramaphosa talked about breaking up Eskom (which
triggered fears of privatisation) during his State of the Nation address
earlier this month. Moody’s, the credit rating agency, is still undecided how
this will play out. It appears reluctant to drop the sword on our investment
grade rating, because condemning our local government debt to junk status could
flatten the rand, ignite inflation and strangle our economy. But at some point,
it may have no other choice. These financial times are indeed out of joint. "Oh,
cursed spite, that ever I was born to set it right," the minister may be
excused for thinking, wallowing in some Shakespearean melancholy.  Will he
set about his task like Hamlet, by foisting a long speech on us and then do
nothing? We think he will. Of course, he will propose cosmetic changes, apply the usual
increases to sin taxes, and squeeze a bit more out of various levies. But he
will find it near-impossible to make a bold play – such as a tax on retirement
savings, for example, or prescribing retirement fund assets, or impose some
other form of wealth tax – without incurring the wrath of the markets. Steven Nathan is founder and CEO of 10x Investments. Views expressed are his own.