The year 2018 was tumultuous, laden with events that shook
the market so much that it yielded negative double-digit returns. Over the last
58 years, this has only happened on the JSE All Share Index during seven
calendar years, including 1969/70 and 1975/76, where this occurred in
consecutive years. This begs the question: will history repeat itself? Should
we brace for another negative year or are we faced with an opportunity to buy
at lower prices? While there is no way of predicting the outcome of the
market for 2019, we can highlight some of the important events which may
influence on stock market returns either negatively or positively. Let’s unpack
some of these key events to watch in 2019 that may affect the market. An election year, a possible turning point One could naively argue that elections are political and not
financial events, but the reality is that the lead-up to, and the outcome of
the South African national elections in May this year will carry economic
significance. Issues such as the land expropriation debate and effective
financial budgeting on the part of National Treasury will need to be addressed
during this time. Both global and local investors will be encouraged by a
perceived business-friendly outcome and equally discouraged by any uncertainty
in the outcome of the elections, as will the ratings agencies that are keeping
a close eye on SA. SA GDP growth may impact markets indirectly In 2018, South Africa experienced its first technical
recession since the global financial crisis and unfortunately came at a time
when global GDP grew at 3.7% and developing economies GDP grew at 4.7%,
according to the International Monetary Fund annual real GDP growth. The
technical recession was announced following two consecutive quarters of
negative GDP growth in quarter one at -2.6% and -0.4% in the second quarter of
2018. Fortunately, SA recovered quickly from the recession with
positive third quarter GDP growth at 2.2%. What is of increasing concern for
2019 is the view that world GDP has plateaued and will no longer serve as a
tailwind to local GDP growth. The relationship between annual GDP growth and calendar year
market returns in SA has an almost zero correlation (since 1960 to 2017 the
correlation has been -0.08) when looking at statistics. While this could imply
that the short-term effect of GDP growth on stock market returns may be
spurious, the effect on the consumer base in SA is likely to result in
insufficient job creation to ease unemployment rates. 2018 Global trends that will permeate into 2019 Two major global uncertainties that are set to continue in
2019 are the trade wars (primarily between the US and China), and the Brexit
negotiations between Britain and the European Union. As we enter 2019, at least a few things are certain. Brexit
must be concluded by the end of the first quarter, whether a deal has been
struck or not. Neither of these situations are positive for globalisation.
There is little doubt that the world has benefitted from the ease in which the
factors of production has shifted due to globalisation and any moves away from
this is almost certain to be inflationary. Will consumers be satisfied to pay
higher prices for goods only because they are locally produced, or will
companies need to tighten their margins to not pass on all costs to consumers?
Only time will tell. Will investors only be interested in equity returns? Even though views on stock market return expectations are
most debated, especially after a disappointing 2018, the yield offered by local
fixed interest assets should not be ignored. The SA 10-year nominal government
bond continues to offer yields in excess of 300 basis points above inflation,
which could serve as a strong anchor to performance if short term volatility
can be tolerated. In addition, the SA Reserve Bank has consistently alluded to
the goal of keeping inflation near the mid-point of the 3%-6% target band,
which tempered the market’s surprise when interest rates were hiked in the last
quarter of 2018. This certainly proves the Monetary Policy Committee objective
of keeping inflation subdued. Globally yields have been edging higher as well
with the yield on the US 10-year reaching above the 3% level in the second half
of 2018, although it has declined somewhat since. What this means for investors Regardless of global trends and market uncertainties, the
most popular question is whether the market, both locally and globally has
offered a buying opportunity or will it be more of the same for 2019. Some investors are adamant about the outcome and are
prepared to take a binary view; some will get it right and some will get it
wrong. The prudent approach will be to continue to gather as much information
as possible to tilt the balance of probabilities in your favour. Every investor should hold a portfolio aligned to their
specific risk profile, which could mean an aggressive approach may be
warranted, but it could also mean that a more measured, diversified approach is
appropriate. Well, if markets do disappoint in 2019, at least we’ll have the
Cricket World Cup and Rugby World Cup to look forward to. Luigi Marinus is Portfolio Manager at PPS Investments.