It is men at executive level who can make the biggest
difference in closing the gender gap. This is according to branding and marketing specialist Donna
Rachelson, CEO of Branding & Marketing YOU and author of the book Play to Win: What Women can Learn from Men
in Business. "In South Africa we haven't made significant
strides...Although workplace discrimination is legislated, and awareness is
growing of what's holding women back, ultimately it is the men in executive
positions who can make the most difference by hiring and promoting women at
managerial level," Rachelson said in a statement. Year after year, the majority of senior executives in South
Africa are men and by July 2018, only one of the JSE's Top-40 companies had a
woman CEO, Rachelson added. "[W]e are past debating the integral role women play in
growing economies. Research shows that companies with more women in senior
positions are more profitable. So, why the disparity?" Robust discussions with men are needed around thinking
differently about women and work, Rachelson believes. Bolder steps The two biggest drivers of representation are hiring and
promotions, she argues, making these critical areas of focus. "Companies are disadvantaging women in these areas from
the beginning of their careers. Women are less likely to be hired into
entry-level jobs. "At the first critical step up to managerial roles, the
disparity widens further." If mostly male leaders understand gender diversity as a
business imperative, they will help work towards it, she believes. 'Get the basics right' "The first step is to get the basics right. Ensure
targets, reporting and accountability reflect a commitment to ensuring more
women in senior positions. It should be rare for women to be the only person at
their managerial level," says Rachelson. "Ensure that hiring and promotions are fair and don't
make assumptions about what women with families want or don't want. "Recognise unconscious biases and microaggression and
ensure that senior leaders become advocates of diversity. Foster an inclusive
and respectful culture that provides opportunities for women to showcase their
achievements and ask for promotions on account of their work." Employees should also be offered flexibility and creative
ways to bring women who have taken a break in their careers back into the
workplace, Rachelson believes. It should be underscored that sexual harassment is
unacceptable and will not be overlooked, she adds, with HR teams properly
trained to investigate and deal with it – even if it involves senior leaders.