Tito Mboweni’s first full Budget was a curious
affair. On the one hand, it should be seen as a
pre-election event designed to pacify most constituencies with a view to
shoring up support in the coming May election. But it didn’t stop there, and
fairly boldly explored a new narrative on economic policy seemingly being
tested by both President Ramaphosa and Minister Mboweni himself. Firstly, this was ultimately a budget of bad
news without any real corrective action possible. It was always going to be a
report-card on recent history and the cumulative effects of gross
mismanagement, malfeasance and policy stagnation. The figures presented by
Mboweni bore this out. Another downwards revision of GDP to 1.5% this
year indicates just how tough it is. But when you factor in a substantial drop
in tax revenue, a whopping R1.2bn borrowed each working day to cover debt
repayments, and the worst budget deficit in a decade, now well over 4%, you
quickly realise the mess we're in. Even more worrying was a rise in our
debt-to-GDP ratio to just about 60%. Now, out of an election year, the only way to
possibly tackle these issues is to be punitive and increase taxes. But there is
no more room to manoeuvre, since the punitive measures were all used up last
year – and no political party worth their salt would raise taxes on a few
months before a fiercely contested national election. As a result, little could be done in terms of
covering the shortfalls. We are left to stew in this malaise for another period
of unknown length – perhaps until well after the election, when a new Ramaphosa
mandate allows for a greater spring-clean of personnel and policy. Against this rather dismal background came some
fairly dramatic surprises – most centered around the status and performance of
state-owned-enterprises (SOEs). And it’s here that the Budget diverged from
what we had grown accustomed to under the ANC. Mboweni had questioned the ownership of SOEs
before. But it was always going to be risky to raise the issue at a national Budget
when just the mention of the word ‘unbundling’ conjures up absolute terror in
the mind of state-owned enthusiasts like the trade unions. Still, he doubled-down on the issue, stating: "Isn’t
it about time the country asks the question: Do we still need these
enterprises? If we do, can we manage them better? If we don’t need them, what
should we do?" This is perhaps the most significant statement on reviewing
decades-long ANC economic policy yet heard since 1994. Unsurprisingly, Mboweni’s words were loudly
applauded by the Democratic Alliance. A little less excited were his own caucus
members, who must’ve been quite shocked that this issue would once again
threaten the cohesiveness of the Alliance just as heavy campaigning for May 8
begins. The ANC is under pressure and the last thing the party needs is dissention
within its ranks on such a key issue. It would seem, therefore, that both Ramaphosa
and Mboweni are keen to exact change – or at least heap pressure on the teams
now entrusted with the turnaround at Eskom and beyond to SAA, the SABC and
others. By floating a review of state ownership, it’s enough to whip some
bureaucrats into shape to get things done! But then there’s more, as the TV advert says. A
more limited cash injection to Eskom of R69BN over three years is a lot less
than what might’ve been desired. Add to this a number of conditionalities on
future disbursements and it was a tough day at the office for the SOEs.
Clearly, government has decided that it’s business unusual and they are willing
– albeit cautiously – to take some political risk on the matter just before the
elections. Whilst
the ANC caucus were left uncertain of all of this, the currency markets lapped
it all up. Not for a long while had the rand rallied during an actual Budget
speech. The markets liked the apparent philosophical or ideological pliability
coming from Mboweni. However, the jury is still out on whether
Moody's will accept the greater SEO vigilance especially in the light of
further fiscal erosion. In this way, the Budget
was more than just going through the motions – it actually provided a talking
point. The real pity of it all, though, was that by 16:00,
when it was all over, there was little practical take-home for the average
South African facing decreasing household expenditure and declining real
incomes. Taxes will still be onerous, thanks to
bracket-creep and yet another ill-considered fuel levy that runs the risk of
further dampening consumption expenditure, just as the oil price looks set to
rise further. And, other than the SOE discussion, there was nothing in terms of
broader macro-economic policy and incentivising small business entrepreneurship,
despite a welcome reference to eliminating unnecessary regulation and red-tape.
With a GDP moving South – at least for 2019 – there was nothing – regretfully –
stimulatory at all. Significantly, this Budget will become an issue
of contention for the 2019 election. The ANC will have to defend and clarify
the rather vague views from Mboweni (and even the president) on the
unbundlings, splitting and hiving off of business units of some SOEs. The problem
is that Mboweni and Ramaphosa (and probably Gordhan) are well ahead of the
broader ANC caucus. And, unless they bring the party formations on board, this
could all end nastily for the governing party. Whilst this was still a Budget that left us in limbo,
it watered further some seeds of policy shifts that require substantial
political will and courage. As a theatrical production, it satisfied most of
the audience in Act One. But the resolution of this all in Act Two (after the
election) will be much more difficult to resolve. Daniel Silke is a
political analyst, author and keynote speaker. Views expressed are his own.