Hopes of a trade truce
 between China and the US and a more dovish Federal Reserve are giving the rand a boost - and President 

Cyril Ramaphosa some breathing space as he struggles to stabilise the 
state-owned electricity company while curbing government debt levels. Given the outlook for South Africa’s economy -
sluggish growth, a widening fiscal deficit, and the threat of a 
credit-rating 
downgrade to junk - the rand shouldn’t be a popular investment. To be 
sure, it’s on track for its worst February in more than a decade, with a
 4.4% loss against the dollar. But it’s still up for the year, 
and one of the top five performers among emerging-market currencies 
tracked by Bloomberg. The rand’s 
carry appeal, a rally in 

commodities and the progress in trade talks have drowned out the noise 
around South Africa’s political and fiscal risks, according to ING Groep. The currency slipped 0.3% to 13.8668 per dollar by 5 pm in
 Johannesburg, paring its advance this year to 4.5%. “Implied yields on the rand are high as external conditions have 
become more benign and emerging-market implied volatility has fallen 
back to levels seen last May,” said 

Chris Turner, the London-based global head of foreign-exchange strategy 
at ING. “Investors have been happy to allocate more to carry-trade 
strategies, including investments in the rand.” The improving backdrop couldn’t have come at a better time for 
Ramaphosa and his Finance Minister 

Tito Mboweni, who are battling to stave off a credit downgrade to junk 
that would increase the cost of borrowing, further stretching state 
finances. A stronger rand helps keep a lid on inflation, giving policy 
makers room to hold borrowing costs steady ahead of general elections in
 May. Moody’s Investors Service, the only major rating company still to 
rank South Africa at 
investment grade, will assess the sovereign on March 29 following an 
annual budget that busted the government’s self-imposed spending 
ceiling.  Government debt is forecast to exceed 60% of gross domestic 
product for the first time on record in 2023, partly because of a R69bn bailout for 

Eskom, the power utility that’s wallowing in debt and 
struggling to keep the lights on. South Africa already trades as junk in the derivatives market. The 
cost of insuring the country’s debt against default in five years is 
higher than that of Brazil, which has a non-investment rating from 
Moody’s. A downgrade from Moody’s would see government bonds exit 
investment-grade indexes, sparking forced sales of as much as $10bn, according to Investec Bank. However, if global markets remain in a neutral or risk-on 
environment, the rand would probably hold its own or even strengthen, 
said 

Annabel Bishop, the Johannesburg-based chief economist at Investec. The 
rand’s implied carry, adjusted for volatility, has been climbing since 
November, and a 

gauge of emerging-market carry returns is up 9% from a September 
low.  The reprieve may be temporary, according to Nedbank. As 
central banks from Europe to the US run out of ammunition to stimulate
 growth, the dollar rally will resume and emerging-market currencies 
will weaken, 

Neels Heyneke and 

Mehul Daya, Johannesburg-based strategists at Nedbank, said in a client 
note. When that happens, South Africa’s weak fundamentals will come into
 play. “As long as the EM currencies remain in this bull trend, the rand is 
unlikely to break higher, notwithstanding fiscal pressures revealed in 
the budget,” Heyneke and Daya wrote. “Global forces will likely trigger 
the next round of rand weakness. Fiscal problems would then fuel the 
unwinding of the rand carry trade.” 