The British Council in partnership with Seed Academy and the Social Enterprise Academy are recruiting 120 creative social entrepreneurs in Cape Town and Johannesburg to take part in a fully-funded, high impact business accelerator programme. This three-month business development programme will include in-depth, bespoke coaching from international and local social enterprise experts designed to support creative social enterprises that are at the ideation and growth stages to build or enhance their business models and bring social impact to the forefront of their work. The programme aims to help these creative social enterprises to become funding ready and/or access new market opportunities. Participants for this selective programme will be recruited through a competitive online application process and can include enterprises operating in the performing arts, creative arts, fashion and textile design through to stage and set design, graphic design and film and television. The programme runs from May to December 2019. The accelerator is being delivered as part of the British Council's Developing Inclusive and Creative Economies (DICE) Programme which supports the growth of creative and social enterprises at systemic, institutional and individual levels as a means of addressing entrenched social problems and supporting youth employment, gender equality and greater opportunities for people with disabilities and members of marginalized communities. Aspiring and established creative social entrepreneurs are invited to apply. The programme is suitable for businesses at both ideation as well as the growth and scale stage. To apply, you should be an entrepreneur with a great idea for a creative business wanting to build it into a viable business with social impact. Or you should already be running a creative social enterprise and ready to scale or to bring social impact into your business model. Applications can be made here from Monday, 18 February. Enquiries in Cape Town can be sent to surika@socialenterprise.academy or call 021 447 2556 and in Joburg to aimee@seedacademy.co.za or call 011 262 6858. 