Although
the whole country is impacted by Eskom load shedding, the implications for
small and medium enterprises can be critical, says Jeremy Lang, regional
general manager at Business Partners. For
SME owners to limit this impact, they must know exactly how the lack of
consistent energy supply affects their particular business, he says. "For example, some
businesses can accommodate producing goods and services around the load
shedding schedules. "However,
other businesses may rely on passing trade at a specific time of the day. If
this is the case, then load shedding can be detrimental," said Lang. Manufacturing, retail, hospitality Lang says certain industries are
also more vulnerable. "Based
on our experience the industries that are most affected by load shedding are
manufacturing, retail, hospitality and in particular, businesses that are using
cold storage and refrigeration." This is because over and above
the potential loss of stock, the constant switching on and off can also damage
the equipment which can become extremely costly to repair or replace. As electricity is generally cut
for around two to four hours, SMEs could lose up to four hours of an eight-hour
working day, which could also impact employees who are paid by the hour, he says. Another way SMEs’ productivity
can be impacted is in terms of their machinery, as some machines can take some
time to start up. This can also be costlier as the
machines may use more electricity to start up again and, in many instances, if
the machines are busy with a continuous process and are interrupted midway,
wastage costs will also increase. Price increases Furthermore,
these businesses would still need to cover their fixed overheads regardless of
what is produced during the day. "As
such, when businesses are less profitable as a result, they tend to increase
prices to maintain margins and ultimately consumers foot the bill," said
Lang. Because of the uncertainty that
the unreliable energy supply causes, SMEs may not invest in growing their
business at this time, which – in his view – can in turn impact the growth of
the economy. Advice His advice for SMEs is to firstly
assess how important electricity is to the business and whether you can work or
schedule your operations around the load shedding schedule. If this is not possible, then the
best option is to consider investing in backup electricity supply such as
generators or UPS systems. It is also important that SME
owners make sure that the business' information is backed up daily on a secure
cloud-based server, where possible.