Uber Technologies is in talks to sell its Uber Eats
operations in India to rival Swiggy, less than two years after it entered the
country’s competitive food-delivery business, according to a person familiar
with the negotiations. The talks between Uber and Bangalore-based Bundl
Technologies - which owns the Swiggy brand - are progressing and a deal could be
sealed within the coming weeks, said the person who is privy to the
discussions but asked not to be identified because the negotiations are confidential. Swiggy spokesman Brian Amnanna said by email that Swiggy
doesn’t comment on "market rumours or speculation," while Uber didn’t
immediately respond to email and WhatsApp messages seeking comment on Sunday. Uber started its food-delivery business in India in 2017
with much fanfare and a huge marketing budget. The San Francisco-based company has poured resources into
the operations to lure users with bargain food deals delivered to the doorstep
but it’s pitted against competitors with powerful investors. Swiggy raised $1bn in funding in December from investors
including South Africa’s Naspers and China’s Tencent Holdings. Uber Eats operates in more than 37 Indian cities, the
company said last year. Swiggy, founded in 2014, delivers from about 60 000
restaurants in at least 80 cities, while the other leading player, New
Delhi-based Zomato, transports orders from 80 000 restaurants in 150 Indian
cities. Uber’s pull-back from food delivery in India, follows
retreats from its ride-hailing business in China, Russia and, most recently,
Southeast Asia, as the SoftBank-backed company prepares for a high-profile
public offering later this year. Negotiations with Swiggy were first reported by the Economic
Times newspaper. Bangalore-based Swiggy and Zomato, supported by Alibaba’s
Ant Financial, lead India’s food-delivery sector, which is showing signs of
consolidation. Bangalore-based ANI Technologies, which owns the Ola
ride-hailing brand, acquired the Indian unit of Foodpanda in December 2017 and
is facing an uphill struggle against the two established players.