Moments of great scientific disruption aren’t necessarily
glamorous. A world-changing idea might spring up when someone is sitting in an
office or scrawling notes, or maybe riffing with a colleague. (Those few colourful
stories of Newton’s apple and Archimedes’ bathtub are probably apocryphal.) Big projects leave more vivid impressions — landing on the
moon, testing atom bombs, or, more recently, finding the Higgs boson and
detecting Einstein’s predicted gravitational waves using a pair of sprawling
but stunningly precise detectors. The paper announcing the Higgs boson boasted
5 000 authors, the one on gravitational wave detection, 1 011 authors. So why
bother with small projects at all? A new analysis suggests the papers that spawn whole new
branches of science most often spring from lone researchers or small groups,
and the more innovative and disruptive the findings, the smaller the teams. Big
teams are still needed for some kinds of tasks, but the most successful of them
either test an existing hypothesis or conduct some feat of applied science,
such as turning the principle of nuclear fission into a bomb. The small team of three people who published the team size
analysis in last week’s Nature took advantage of a massive database containing
65 million documented advances — scientific papers, patents and software
products. How do you measure disruption? Dashun Wang of Northwestern
University said they looked for a telltale pattern in the way a paper was cited
in subsequent work. He and his colleagues reasoned that the more innovative
papers would be cited without the older studies that they themselves cited.
That would suggest these papers weren’t continuing along known branches, but
had started new ones. Less disruptive papers, by contrast, would be cited along
with a string of previous work. Team size increases,
work changes As an example, they point to a paper introducing a new
phenomenon called self-organised criticality, which was cited without the trail
of previous citations — and indeed it launched a new branch of research. The
disruptive papers also get cited longer into the future — even if they have
lower impact at first. "We realised as team size increases, the character of
the work they produce systematically changed," said Wang. When they
tracked individual scientists, they found the same person had more disruptive
impacts when part of smaller teams than when part of larger ones. This comes at a time when small science needs some respect.
As measured by the initial burst of early citations, the highest-impact papers
have switched from those with individual authors to teams, said Laszlo
Barabasi, a network scientist at Northeastern University. "The problem is
that funding agencies and foundations are in love with big science teams. These
bring instant gratification," he said, through their sheer ambition and co-mingling
of big names. In science, the most revolutionary ideas don’t mean much
until there’s experimental confirmation, and there was no way to confirm either
the Higgs boson or gravitational waves without gigantic projects. Big projects
employing thousands of people work well when their goal is to prove an existing
idea, or to apply an existing idea to a needed task. And the result can go
beyond the initial stated goal — the Large Hadron Collider used to detect the
Higgs is more than just an experiment, but an instrument for exploring inner
space, and the LIGO experiment credited with finding gravitational waves is now
an observatory poised to detect colliding black holes and other exotic
phenomena. Where the big team approach failed badly was at the now
defunct blood-testing company Theranos, whose rise and fall was chronicled in
the book "Bad Blood." The company’s founder, Elizabeth Holmes, had a
goal — to make blood testing easier and cheaper, substituting a finger stick
for a vein draw. What she didn’t have was an idea for how to do this. The lack
of a scientific or technological breakthrough didn’t discourage investors from
pouring in billions, but even with several well-outfitted labs and hundreds of
people set to the task, that key innovation never materialised. The moon shot and the Manhattan Project are often held up as
banners for the power of big science, but this may be misguided. Historian Alex
Wellerstein, quoted in Scientific American, put it this way: "Almost every
week someone, somewhere calls for a new Manhattan Project. Apparently we need a
Manhattan Project for cancer, for AIDS, for health, for solar power … for
cybersecurity, for nutritional supplements and most literally for protecting
the island of Manhattan from sea level rise." The problem, as Wellerstein saw it, was that these new calls
for a new Manhattan Project were aimed at answering scientific questions
while the original Manhattan Project was aimed at applying a new scientific
idea, nuclear fission, to bombs. The science behind it was found by pairs and
individuals, not making big explosions, but doing the mundane-looking task of
thinking.