The ANC regards ongoing load shedding as suspicious,
claiming it suggests sabotage. In a statement on Tuesday morning, acting national
spokesperson for the ruling party Zizi Kodwa said load shedding hinted at
"signs of sabotage to undermine the efforts to grow the SA economy and
bring much-needed investment to create more jobs". It could be no coincidence that the recent implementation of
load shedding followed "bold efforts" announced by President Cyril
Ramaphosa during the State of the Nation Addres, Kodwa added. Ramaphosa announced in his address last week that Eskom would be
split into three entities – generation, transmission and distribution. All
three companies will fall under Eskom Holdings. On Sunday, three days after his announcement, Eskom
instituted stage 2 load shedding. On Monday the utility instituted stage 4,
while on Tuesday Eskom started stage 3 load shedding at 08:00. Plant breakdowns Kodwa questioned whether Eskom management was telling the
country the truth regarding the extent of the crisis and the state of various
power stations. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe, meanwhile, said on Monday
that load shedding had returned because of plant break downs, and not sabotage. Emergency meeting The board of the power utility held an emergency meeting
with Minister of Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan on Monday. In a statement
released after the meeting, Eskom's board said the major new Medupi and Kusile
power stations were "continuing to show a lack of reliability to
contribute meaningfully to Eskom’s generating capacity, which is a serious
concern". The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa, one of
three recognised unions at the power utility, has rejected the unbundling of
Eskom, Fin24 reported previously. The union is concerned that the unbundling would lead to the
privatisation of Eskom, which would lead to job shedding. The Congress of South African Trade Unions, in turn, has
called for Ramaphosa to make a commitment that the restructuring would not lead
to job losses. Neither Eskom nor Kodwa immediately replied to requests for
additional comment.