Low expenditure on exploration is a major concern
for the SA mining industry, Allan Reid, head of mining at law firm Cliffe
Dekker Hofmeyr, has told Fin24. In his view, this does not bode well for the future
of mining in the country. Reid believes both the Mining Charter guidelines
and requirements for operating licences will result in increased barriers to
funding, especially for new projects. In 2018, it emerged that after a four-year slump,
mining companies were beginning to spend on exploration again, as interest in
base metals began to rebound and clean technologies boosted demand for niche
battery ingredients. 'Pretty good year'- but not for SA A report by S&P Global Market Intelligence
found that miners spent $8.4bn searching for new metal deposits - some 15% more
than in 2016, and that exploration spending, excluding iron ore, could increase
again by 20% in the next year. The mining industry in SA is in a different
position to the industry worldwide. Reid described 2018 as a pretty good year
for the mining industry globally. But SA is no longer one of the leading mining
destinations of the world. According to the PwC ranking of the top 40 mining
companies in the world, only one is based in SA, namely Anglo American. "Globally we have seen an increase in
commodity prices and how cost-cutting measures became effective. Generally,
there was an increase of returns to shareholders globally and an increase of
profits," Reid said. Bulk commodity mining companies - mining coal,
manganese, chrome and iron ore - did well last year and, in Reid's view, will
continue to do so this year and even beyond. At the other end of the spectrum, commodity prices
did not favour gold and platinum mining companies, and the dismal performance
of recent years was not reversed. Furthermore, various gold and platinum shafts in SA
are reaching the end of their productive lives and becoming very expensive to
mine, Reid said. The position of SA platinum miners was somewhat
ameliorated in that the basket price for platinum group metals (PGMs) was
buoyed by an increase in prices for palladium and chrome. Nevertheless, on an aggregated basis and after
impairments by the gold and platinum producers, the mining industry in SA
recorded a substantial loss for 2018. "The gold and platinum companies are likely to
continue to face headwinds going forward in SA," said Reid. Challenges According to Reid, obtaining and maintaining a
social licence to operate has become a major challenge for many SA miners. "There have been numerous court decisions in
last few months, which are going to place a burden on mining companies applying
for mining licences," he explained. In one case, the judge ruled that, if there are
informal settlements on land a company wishes to mine, the company requires
consent from the community. "This would, therefore, not involve only a
consultative process, but actual consent," said Reid. In his view, associated
costs, or benefits ultimately claimed by the community, could make the mining
project unviable for the company. Rising costs "The other major risk is the cost pressures
facing SA mining. Employee costs are rising above inflation and rising costs
coupled with lower production leads to SA becoming a less favoured destination
for mining," Reid said. He believes the consolidation trend is set to
continue, both in terms of company mergers and asset consolidation. As for the 2018 Mining Charter, he argues it is an
improvement on the June 2017 version, but that it still "raises
considerable fears among foreign investors, especially in relation to the
carried interest of communities and employees, as well the distribution black
economic empowerment in specific percentages". The latest version of the Charter allows mining
companies who complied with the 26% empowerment stipulation in the previous
version to enjoy empowered status even if their empowerment partner has exited
their investment in the company. New applicants must comply with the 30%
stipulation. Regulatory certainty However, Reid said there was a move towards greater
regulatory certainty in SA's mining industry during 2018. "I don't think the new Mining Charter goes far
enough to encourage new investments, but at least investors know where they
stand and companies embarking on new mining projects know where they stand as
well," he said. "SA's mining industry faces a lot of
competition from other African countries, but these countries also have amended
their mining legislation, increased taxation and indigenisation laws. This is
particularly so in Zambia, Tanzania and the DRC. I think those aspects will
balance out whatever difficulties we have with our Mining Charter and will even
the playing field." For Reid the annual Mining Indaba - taking place in
Cape Town from 4 to 7 February – is an important hub for the mining industry,
and this year is likely to see "industry optimism". "I think at this year's indaba we will see
evidence of a continuation of companies restructuring. This will be a very good
platform for those companies looking for finance and for different funding
models," Reid said. "I will be an interesting indaba and I think we
will see a bit more industry optimism than has been the case in last two
years."