The US and China haven’t yet agreed on the critical issue of
enforcement in a proposed currency deal that would ensure Beijing lives up to
its promise to not depreciate the yuan, four people familiar with the matter
said. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Friday touted the
currency pact as the strongest ever, though he offered no details, following
two days of high-level talks in Washington between US and Chinese officials. The discussions were extended into the weekend in search of
a broad trade deal to prevent the US from increasing tariffs on Chinese goods
next week. In tweets early Sunday President Donald Trump declared
Saturday’s talks "very productive" and offered praise for Chinese
President Xi Jinping leading into this week’s meeting with North Korea Kim Jong
Un. Trump has previously accused China of gaming its currency to
gain a competitive advantage, though his Treasury Department has repeatedly
declined to name the Asian nation a manipulator in its semi-annual reports on
foreign-exchange markets. Still, the US asked China to keep the value of its currency,
the yuan, stable as part of trade negotiations between the world’s two largest
economies. If successful, that would neutralise any effort by Beijing
to devalue its currency and make its exports cheaper to help counter American
tariffs, people familiar with the ongoing talks said this week. As part of the talks, China has offered to buy more American
goods such as agricultural products and energy, in a bid to meet Trump’s demand
to shrink the US trade deficit. The two sides are also still haggling over much deeper
reforms to China’s economy, including addressing the alleged theft of
intellectual property from US companies operating in China. Major hurdles US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, who is leading
talks for the White House said on Friday that the negotiators have made
progress on structural issues related to the Chinese economy but still face
obstacles. "We have major hurdles," he added. Neither the Treasury nor USTR responded immediately Saturday
to a request for comment on the currency negotiations. Trump has said he will need to finalise any trade deal
directly with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Mnuchin said this week that a
leaders’ meeting for late March at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida is
being tentatively planned. The success of the currency pledge hinges on what
enforcement mechanism the two countries decide on for the entire agreement, two
of the people said. Lighthizer has said any deal with China needs to contain a
strong enforcement mechanism to ensure long-lasting changes to the trading
relationship. The White House has complained that Beijing has failed to follow
through on its pledges to carry out reforms under previous administrations. Two people familiar with the talks said an option under
discussion to enforce the agreement is the possibility for the US to increase
tariffs on Chinese goods if Beijing breaks its word. Currency moves have become part of the discussions over
trade by the Trump administration. The US secured a currency pact in the new
North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada and has said it will
seek similar commitments in future trade deals. China’s yuan fell over 5% in 2018 as trade tensions boiled
over, raising speculation that Beijing was deliberately weakening its currency
to offset the impact of tariffs. The yuan has rebounded nearly 2% year-to-date,
after sliding to a decade-low against the dollar in late October.