A
total of 95% of surveyed members of communities in a social audit have not seen
the social and labour plans of local mines that are intended to benefit them. This
is according to the Social Audit Baseline Report, released on Tuesday by NGO
ActionAid South Africa, in collaboration with community movements Mining
Affected Communities United in Action and Women from Mining Affected
Communities United in Action, as well as the Centre for Applied Legal Studies
(CALS) of Wits University. The social audit was conducted
across 10 mining-affected communities in SA, to determine their current living
conditions, their challenges and the awareness of social and labour plans (SLPs)
of the companies mining nearby. The
baseline report, however, only includes outcomes from eight surveyed
communities, as the remaining two surveys were not completed by the time the
report was compiled. Crucial for accountability Sifiso
Dladla, who helped facilitate the social audits across the country, told Fin24
in an interview on Tuesday that it was crucial to find out if those surveyed
were involved in the formulation of SLPs, so that they could hold companies
accountable to their plans and truly benefit from them. For more Mining Indaba news, follow Fin24's Special
Report Among the key findings of the
survey is that 91% of respondents did not know what a SLP is, 85% of
respondents did not know of any structures in their community which engaged
with mines on these plans and 95% had never seen a SLP. Beneficiaries unaware of the
benefits "Social Labour Plans are
meant to be the main drivers of corporate social responsibility programmes
which are mandated by the Constitution and the Mineral Resources Development
Act, yet the beneficiaries of the programmes appear not to be aware of the
programmes and of how they are supposed to benefit from it," the report
stated. Other findings showed that 79% of
respondents said there was no benefit to mines at all, 8% felt mines brought
negative effects such as sickness, dispossessions and damages and only 13% felt
there were positive effects such as clinics, roads and employment. Robert Krause, a researcher, said
that CALS focused on getting access to SLPs in order for the communities to
carry out their social audits. "That experience shows
another structural impediment to communities actually participating and
actually making sure they benefit," he said. Krause
said the Department of Mineral Resources required applications to be made
through a Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) process, in Pretoria. Plans hard to access Even once access is granted, the
plans are not easy to access because they are not digitised and must be
physically obtained from regional offices. This shows it is difficult for
communities to have any input in plans, and they are worse off if they don't
have lawyers to help them. "It is important (for
communities) to get access because when a plan is being developed, they should
be able to give their input. For example, if a community needs a maternity
ward, it’s no good building them a general clinic. "Once there is an SLP, then
communities also need to know how to access benefits, like where to go and what
is being offered." He added that communities should
be empowered to hold companies accountable to their commitments.