Finance
Minister Tito Mboweni is set to deliver the 2019 Budget against the backdrop of
an economy characterised by prolonged underperformance and a social context
underscored by growing discontent. These are
likely to be exacerbated by the increased risks in the global environment –
slower growth, Brexit, trade tensions and climate change. Combined,
these factors have manifested in acute challenges that threaten to undermine the
current path of fiscal consolidation and, by implication, the broader economy.
It necessitates a change in direction. As such, politically difficult choices
appear unavoidable – even in the run-up to a general election. Business
Unity South Africa has identified three of the most pressing themes that should
form part of the Budget: addressing the urgent governance, financial and
operational challenges in state-owned entities (SOEs), in particular Eskom;
declining tax revenue; and pursuing pro-growth policies. The latter emerged
during Mboweni’s maiden medium-term budget policy statement (MTBPS) in October
2018 and should be reinforced in the Budget, as adopting a pro-growth strategy
is a viable means of climbing out of the current fiscal challenges and
constraints. South
Africa’s fiscal challenges are underpinned by a downward trend in revenue
collection and an overreliance on borrowing. Concerns over SOEs BUSA has
consistently argued that chronically underperforming and costly SOEs probably pose
one of the greatest risks to South Africa’s public finances. The qualified
audits of a number of SOEs and, even more concerning, the failure in some cases
to submit annual reports on time point to governance challenges. Eskom is
the most pressing case because of its role as the mainstay of the economy:
without a reliable power supply, the wheels of economic activity grind to a
halt. The power utility’s reintroduction of rotational load-shedding has
brought its broader problems – operational, structural and financial – into
stark relief, as has the admission by Public Enterprises Minister Pravin
Gordhan that Eskom is in crisis. President
Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement in the State of the Nation Address two weeks
ago, that Eskom will be divided into three separate entities for generation,
transmission and distribution is an indication that further delays in reform
can no longer be supported. The current
severe operational challenges experienced by Eskom, its R420bn (and rising) debt
and inability to enforce payment by errant customers threaten to derail the
progress made at the Jobs Summit and 2018 Investment Conference. The Budget
is expected to provide details on the nature of any fiscal relief to Eskom
which, according to President Ramaphosa, will be contingent on a detailed
turnaround strategy. Unlike previous strategies, there exists no further fiscal
space for anything short of stringent reforms to tackle the difficult challenges
of overstaffing, debt collection, procurement reform and addressing a skills
deficit. At some
point, and the Budget may give some pointers towards this, the partial
privatisation of Eskom’s generating capacity would introduce much-needed
competition and efficiency, as well as welcome fiscal relief over the medium to
long term. Given
current fiscal constraints, the only obvious way of resolving the financial
challenges faced by SOEs is in a fiscally neutral or positive manner. This would
imply bringing in outside finance and partners where possible through the partial
or full privatisation of SOEs, or indeed the outright disposal of non-core,
non-strategic assets by the State. Furthermore, closing non-essential SOEs
cannot be ruled out. Declining revenue One of
Mboweni’s positive messages emanating from the MTBPS was the indication that no
further tax increases were envisaged over the medium term. This reflected the
fact that, despite the growing gap between revenue collection and expenditure,
further hikes would be self-defeating. Worryingly,
the MTBPS outlined a decline in the tax buoyancy ratio to 0.91, underscoring
that the economy is indeed at a point where further tax increases are
counter-productive. We,
therefore, expect no major changes to tax policy in this Budget. However, there
might be a temptation to extract revenue wherever possible. In a context of
slowing receipts for Corporate Income Tax and Personal Income Tax – for a
projected total of R10bn below MTBPS estimates – as well as the recent and
politically difficult increase in value-added tax, underperformance in revenue
collection is likely to be compensated by limited fiscal drag relief for higher-income
earners and increases in so-called "sin" taxes. On the
latter, any excise increases need to be balanced against the negative impact on
the competitiveness of legitimate goods vis-à-vis illicit goods and trade. Over the
medium term, a more stringent and effective crackdown on the illicit economy
holds a greater prospect of increasing revenue. Towards pro-growth policy Given the
political improbability of significantly reducing expenditure targets,
depressed revenue collection and some form of fiscal support for Eskom and
other SOEs, an increase in the budget deficit is expected. As with
recent Budgets, the only sustainable route to current fiscal consolidation
resides in inclusive economic growth. Over the long term, per capita growth hinges
on structural changes which must, however, begin with a pro-growth policy
direction to unlock private sector investment. With
inadequate fiscal space for outright stimulus, the key objective for this
year’s Budget must be to achieve a credible change in narrative insofar as South
Africa’s policy direction is concerned. The balancing act that the Budget needs
to achieve is to begin a focused national dialogue on the size of the State
that South Africa can sustainably maintain, and the related question of the
respective roles of the public and private sectors. The Budget
will need to outline in far greater detail the Government’s commitment to a
growth-friendly regulatory environment. Foremost
among this will be to assure investors of the country’s continued commitment to
property rights, in the context of the discussion around expropriation without
compensation, as well as to the independence of the Reserve Bank and the
retention of inflation targeting. Addressing the public sector wage bill and
SOE reform is also important. Moving forward In the
immediate future, there appears little that National Treasury can achieve to avoid
further deterioration in the budget deficit, and the associated responses by
sovereign credit ratings agencies, including Moody’s Investors Service. Unfortunately,
the reforms required to create the conditions for sustained improvement are not
short-term in nature. The urgent task of this year’s Budget is, therefore, one
of continuing the growth-friendly messaging from the MTBPS and demonstrating
the required intent and commitment in creating and implementing the conditions
for inclusive economic growth. Olivier Serrao is Business Unity South Africa's Executive
Director for Economic Policy.