New World Wealth has come up with a list of the top five hotels and lodges in South Africa for 2019. The list was established after interviewing top-end travel agents and frequent travellers across the country, as well as tracking complaints and compliments online and undertaking site visits where possible. Ratings criteria for hotels include service, location, views and scenery, quality of communal facilities, maintenance of grounds, quality and size of rooms and iconic status. Top five hotels and lodges in SA: 12 Apostles Hotel & Spa  The hotel is located at the base of the Twelve Apostles mountain range between Camps Bay and Llandudno on Cape Town's Atlantic Seaboard. It is the only building for miles and is completely secluded. Lost City  (Source: Foto24) This hotel is located in the Sun City Resort. Its design shows that no expense was spared during construction. It offers guests a host of activities including: live shows, a casino, two golf courses, game drives, jungle walks and the valley of the waves swimming area. Beverley Hills Hotel  (Source: iStock) This hotel is located in Umhlanga near Durban. It was built in the 1960s and has consistently been one of the top luxury hotels in SA for over 50 years. Mount Nelson  This hotel is located in central Cape Town. It exudes class. Its high tea, lounges and gardens are legendary. It is one of the oldest luxury hotels in SA, opening in 1899. It has been a regular stop for the world’s wealthy for over 100 years. The Oyster Box  The Oyster Box is also located in Umhlanga near Durban. The property was initially turned into a hotel in the 1950s and became a popular spot for Jo'burg tourists to spend their summers. In 2007 it was renovated and turned into one of the most luxurious hotels in the country by the Red Carnation Group - which also owns the 12 Apostles. Top five game lodges in SA: The New World Wealth report also lists its top five game lodges in SA. Ratings criteria included location, biodiversity, views and scenery, quality of game drives, game walks, boat rides, mokoro rides, service, quality and size of rooms. Africa The report also lists its top hotels, game lodges and luxury spas in Africa for 2019. Game lodges based in the Masai Mara and Okavango feature prominently, while South African destinations dominate the hotel and spa categories. Top 10 hotels in Africa for 2019: Top 10 game lodges in Africa for 2019: Top five spas in Africa for 2019: