African online retailer Jumia is planning an initial public
offering in New York this year that could value the business at about $1.5bn
(about R20bn), according to people familiar with the matter. Jumia’s largest shareholder MTN Group [JSE:MTN] is planning to
raise as much as $600m (about R8bn) from selling its shares through the IPO,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified as the information isn’t
public. MTN and Jumia declined to comment. MTN had been weighing a
listing or private sale of its shares in Jumia, people familiar with the matter
said last August. A US IPO would catapult Lagos, Nigeria-based Jumia into the
global spotlight after seven years of rapid growth across Africa, where it
provides an Amazon.com Inc - like service and has platforms in 13 countries. Jumia is a rare so-called unicorn in Africa – a private
company valued at more than $1bn (about R13.6bn) – being one of only three,
according to research firm CB Insights. The company was set up by French entrepreneurs Sacha
Poignonnec and Jeremy Hodara in 2012 to take advantage of rising internet use
in the world’s least connected continent, as well as a lack of availability of
items such as designer watches and sunglasses in Lagos stores. Internet access Jumia will tell potential investors that two-thirds of
Africa’s 1.2 billion people still don’t have access to the internet, providing
plenty of potential for sales growth and profitability, said one of the people. Internet giants such as Alphabet’s Google and Facebook are
among those striving to extend connectivity to the more remote and poorer parts
of the continent. MTN could be selling Jumia in New York at about the same
time as an IPO of its Nigeria unit in Lagos, a move the carrier agreed to as
part of a $1bn (about R13.6bn) regulatory fine in 2016. The latter will be done in two stages, with an introductory
listing in the first half of this year followed by a sell down of its majority
stake, Chief Executive Rob Shuter said on a recent call with investors. A successful listing of both Jumia and the Nigeria unit
could help MTN reduce debt, which increased to R69.8bn in June from R57.1bn at
the end of 2017. The rising liabilities and a dispute over non-payment of back
taxes in Nigeria is weighing on the company’s share price, which has fallen by
almost a third in the last 12 months. Other Jumia shareholders include Goldman Sachs Group,
Millicom International Cellular SA, Orange SA and Africa Internet Group, a
venture backed by Goldman, MTN and Rocket Internet.