In early 2008, the winds of change were blowing through the
corridors of Luthuli House. The Jacob Zuma Project scaled the ramparts and deposed Thabo
Mbeki, who by then had become persona non grata in the ANC, with the new
leadership promising to dismantle his economic policies and to drive the idea
of a developmental state. The Zumaites promised an era of glasnost and perestroika, of
transparency and dialogue, a sure break from the latter stages of the Mbeki
government that became cumbersome, paranoid and ineffective. The message: The
needs of the people would be placed at the centre of a responsible, reactive
and caring government and the ANC's tasks. And when Mathews Phosa, the party's new treasurer general,
declared the party's investment vehicle Chancellor House would look to divest
from its deal with Hitachi, who won a healthy tender to work on Eskom's Medupi
and Kusile power stations, it looked like they might actually walk the talk. On 21 February 2008 he said Chancellor House – named after
the building housing the law firm of Mandela-Tambo – would exit the Hitachi
deal "because governance is an issue and there is public focus on this". The criticism was clear: how could the governing party's
investment vehicle be the empowerment partner to an international company
hoping to win tenders from a state-owned enterprise? The conflict was clear,
surely? And Phosa, it seemed, got it. He wanted the Zuma leadership to be beyond reproach. There
must be a clean break from the previous leadership, he explained to this
reporter, giving him a lift to Cape Town International Airport in April 2008. "We must ensure we get re-elected in 2012…because in
the ANC, you're always in election mode." But the ANC did nothing on Chancellor House. Hitachi Power Africa,
the consortuim between Hitachi Europe and Chancellor House, brought in to
repair faulty welds on the massive boilers, was banking massive fees – hundreds
of millions of rands. Phosa's declaration to divest came to nought. Gwede
Mantashe, the new secretary general, dismissed queries, arguing the decision to
sell the stake in Hitachi was one for the board of Chancellor House, not the
ANC, who is the shareholder. It became farcical. It was as clear as daylight there wasn't
only conflict of interest, but that corruption was in play. One Sunday morning I called Phosa, who used to be accessible
and available to political hacks attempting to navigate the brave new world
offered by the Zuma leadership. He answered the call, as he usually did,
exchanging some thoughts about the morning's Sunday papers and the main banner
headlines. But the mood quickly changed when I breached the issue of
Chancellor House. "Just following up on your comments earlier that the
ANC is going to disinvest from the Hitachi consortium…governance issues and
ethics and all that," would have been the pitch. Phosa's mood turned dark. He didn't want to engage about the
ANC and Chancellor House, nor did he want to address the associated problems or
the repercussions for the party if it was seen as manipulating the state in
order to obtain monetary gain. "Fokof man," Phosa said in Afrikaans and ended the
call. The ANC has never come clean on Chancellor House, its
investments, how its proximity to the party and state has benefited it or how
many contracts it scored from the state. In 2015, however, Hitachi settled a dispute with the United
States' Securites and Exchange Commission, its financial services watchdog. It
was found the company had "inaccurately recorded an improper payment"
to Chancellor House. Without admitting any form of guilt, Hitachi paid a fine
of $19m. According to the settlement document, Hitachi received $5.6bn
from the contract, and that Chancellor House's investment in the consortuim
delivered a yield of 5 000%. Hitachi was clear about its choice of empowerment
partner. It agreed to pay Chancellor House a "success fee" if it
helped Hitachi win the contracts, and an internal memorandum stated that the
Eskom board was dominated by members aligned to the ANC. According to Bloomberg, "Chancellor House paid $190 819
for its stake in 2005. By July 2008, Hitachi's African unit started making
payments of success fees, which it reported as 'consulting fees', and dividends
totalled about $6m. In February 2012, it also paid Chancellor House $4.5m to
buy its 25% stake, giving the ANC front company a 5 000% return on its
investment". The ANC made a pretty penny, merely by leveraging its
position as governing party with control over the commanding heights of the
public purse and parastatals. It was brazen, sure, and very easy. It allegedly filled the
ANC's coffers before the 2009 election, and it opened the door to many, many
more lucrative enterprises. The era of capture had started.