The various commissions set up to probe corruption allegations at state institutions must run their course, before government will take action against implicated individuals, Deputy President David Mabuza said. The deputy president was responding to questions in the National Assembly on Wednesday afternoon. National Freedom Party Nhlanhlakayise Khubisa asked if government would use the opportunity the commissions presented to ensure that what has happened, does not reoccur. 'Don't jump the gun' Mabuza told MPs to be mindful that the commissions are still underway, and that findings have to be made against individuals. "The judge will decide and we will all have to accept the ruling of the chairperson. In that case if there are individuals that must be prosecuted stemming from these commissions of inquiry, let it be. But let us not jump the gun," he said. "Let us allow the commissions to run their course. That is the logical thing to do," he reiterated. Mabuza said it is tempting to act as revelations come to light, but the chairpersons of the commissions must be allowed to make their own findings. He explained that as allegations are made against individuals, they should be allowed to respond first. 'We can't claim to be perfect' "It is important that we walk this journey so that we learn from this journey. We are a young democracy and of course we cannot claim to be perfect. We must learn as we proceed." He stressed that commissions should be allowed to complete their work. "The issues raised there will be finalised there and the chairperson will make a finding about anyone coming before the commission and saying anything … Let us allow these commissions to proceed and allow those chairing the commissions an opportunity to present their report." When asked by DA MP Phumzile van Damme why the ANC had not moved to suspended implicated officials yet, including himself, Mabuza responded in saying that if he is found to be on the "wrong side" of the law, then the law should take its course.