About three years ago, following the
unmasking and subsequent demise of Bell Pottinger at the bitter height of the
Zupta-led state capture, the ANC's spokesperson at the time went onto all media
interviews he could attend to express disgust at this foreign company that
arrived here to sow racial division and – wait for this – undo the gains of our
post-apartheid achievements, or something along those lines. What the man didn't and wouldn't say at
the time was that Bell Pottinger, a spin doctoring agency, didn't wake up one
day and decide on its own to head to our shores to sow racial mayhem. Someone,
or a group of people, called it. Agencies do not employ themselves. They
get invited by paying clients with an agenda. And, usually in the case of campaigns
such as the one Bell Pottinger had been commissioned for, they get paid a
monthly retainer upon submission of monthly progress reports. They would also have discussions with their
clients about what is working and what is not, as well as propose further actions
to be taken in the following months to keep the campaign going in line with the
brief. The paying client would have to be happy with such proposals and sign off
on them. In my experience, agency briefs are not
unwritten 'gentlemen's agreements', sealed with a simple handshake. Any agency
account made in such a way would have to involve some dirty work that should
never have to be traced back to anyone, but I have never come across any. Suspicious accounts In another occurrence, when the four main
South African banks decided to close Zupta company accounts because of their
growing criminal and reputational toxicity, the ANC's then Secretary-General, together
with the party's head of economic policy, didn't say much in public. But, has
since emerged, they Nicodemously summoned several bank representatives to
Luthuli House – ANC headquarters – away from the glare of the public and, reportedly,
questioned
their motives for closing the criminally suspicious accounts. They're also reported to have tried to convince
the banks to change their minds about closing the abovementioned accounts.
Clearly, the men concerned either did not care about what the Zuptas were doing
to the country, all under ANC cover, or that they never cared because, it's
safe to argue, a lot more would have been at stake for them. In other words,
they knew something the rest of us didn't. Enter Bosasa Fast-forward to February 2019. Bosasa, now
known as African Global Operations, finds itself in a similar place to the Zupta
companies when the banks decided to close their accounts, for pretty much a similar
category of reasons; suspected criminality; fraud, money laundering, and
inevitable reputational toxicity. This is a company that many have suspected
for many years, though without direct proof, to have enjoyed a strange, symbiotic,
relationship with the country's ruling elite, at collective and individual
levels. Once again, key political players are
coming out to feign surprise and ignorance. Trade Unions seem more worried about
losing members when the company gets liquidated than about the crimes that were
carried in its name. The Gauteng premier – he who didn't know anything about
Life Esidimeni happening right under his nose until the body count became
public – has come out guns blazing, demanding that all existing African Global
Operations contracts with the provincial government be investigated for
wrongdoing and that action be taken where such wrongdoing is found to have
taken place. There are no questions anywhere about how
the criminality could have lasted for so many years without anyone knowing
about it. Falling for the trick This is what our politicians have become
adept at and, sadly, many still fall for the trick. They're like criminals who
march with aggrieved community members in search of either the missing bodies of
the victims or their killers, shouting the loudest and pretending to be as
angered by the crime as everyone else, if not more. In recent years, they've also known to
have mastered the art of marching against their own party, a party whose
decisions they make. The truth is that African Global
Operations, Bell Pottinger, Zupta companies and others, like KPMG, Bain &
Company, SAP, and others that have been reputationally damaged by their
involvement in criminality, have had enablers in the system. In addition, almost hidden from such well-packaged
and branded crimes are many others going on all the time behind-the-scenes.
These are crimes committed by the tenderpreneurs of our times, in cahoots with corrupt
government employees, when they buy products in the open market and sell them
at several times the original price to government departments without adding
any value to them. There are too many cases of people being
paid several millions of rands out of limited government funds to deliver a
service or product that could have cost a lot less had it been purchased in the
open market and allowed the government department involved to stretch its
budget a lot further in order to deliver more services to the people of South
Africa. To regain domestic and global confidence
and to grow a truly inclusive economy, South Africa needs a new deal. This new
deal must include a restructured Eskom, as promised by President Ramaphosa, and
a bigger acceptance of the role that must be played by economic and sectoral
disruptors such as Independent Power Producers and renewable energy. The country also needs small businesses,
which are good for any economy, as they contribute massively to the reduction of
unemployment and poverty, instead of a community of "rebranders" and "resellers"
who add no value. South Africa must grow its economic pie by
investing in the kind of research and skills training that enables people to
develop new ideas, business ideas of the future, in order to absorb more
players into the economy. In delivering the first Budget Speech of
2019, ahead of the elections, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni should be the
independent thinker he's known to be and say something about structural
constraints, anomalies and our bad habits. The legacy he leaves behind should be that
of articulating things that need to be said but that many, including trade
unions and other reactionary groupings afraid of change, do not want to hear. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation
management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy
DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.