Our 2018 Annual Letter February 13, 2018 By Bill Gates and Melinda Gates We are outspoken about our optimism. These days, though,
optimism seems to be in short supply. The headlines are filled with awful news. Every day brings a
different story of political division, violence, sexual harassment, or natural
disaster. Despite the headlines, we see a world that’s getting better. The world is healthier and safer than ever. The number of
children who die every year has been cut in half since 1990 and keeps going
down. The number of mothers who die has also dropped dramatically. So has
extreme poverty—declining by nearly half in just 20 years. More children are
attending school. The list goes on and on. But being an optimist isn’t about knowing that life used to
be worse. It’s about knowing how life can get better. And that’s what really
fuels our optimism. This is our 10th Annual Letter, and we’re marking the
occasion by answering 10 tough questions that people ask us. We will answer
them as forthrightly as we can, and we hope that when you’re finished reading,
you’ll be just as optimistic as we are. Why don’t you give more in the United
States? Melinda: Our
foundation spends about $500 million a year in the United States, most of it on
education. That’s a lot, but it is less than the roughly $4 billion we spend to
help developing countries. We don’t compare different people’s suffering. All suffering
is a terrible tragedy. Take vaccines. We assumed that since it was possible to
prevent disease for a few cents or a few dollars at most, it was being taken
care of. But it turned out that we were wrong, and tens of millions of kids
weren’t being immunized at all. We’ve spent $15.3 billion on vaccines over the
past 18 years. Bill: We’ve
been looking at how we might expand our work in the US beyond education. We
fund the US Partnership on Mobility from Poverty, which is studying ways to help
people move up the economic ladder. Although we travel extensively to learn
about the lives of poor people in other countries, we’ve done less of that in
America. So last fall, we took a trip to the South to learn more. We will
share more about our approach when we have settled on a strategy. What do
you have to show for the billions you’ve spent on US education? Bill: A lot, but not as much as
either of us would like. We made
education the focus of our work in the United States because it is the key to a
prosperous future, for individuals and the country. Unfortunately, although
there’s been some progress over the past decade, America’s public schools are
still falling short on important metrics, especially college completion. And
the statistics are even worse for disadvantaged students.  We support
early learning and postsecondary institutions, but we started with high
schools, and that’s still the area in which we invest the most. We’ve learned a
lot about what works in education, but the challenge has been to replicate the
successes widely. In the early
2000s, our foundation was one of the organizations that drew attention to a big
flaw in the way high-school graduation rates were calculated. They were often
reported at 90 percent when they were actually less than 70 percent—that is,
roughly a third of students were dropping out. We funded research that
identified the true graduation rate and helped build a coalition of states that
agreed to use it. To help
raise those graduation rates, we supported hundreds of new secondary schools.
We have also worked with districts across the country to help them improve the
quality of teaching. Melinda: We recently announced
some changes in our education work that take these lessons into account.
Everything we do in education begins as an idea that educators bring to us.
They’re the ones who live and breathe this work, who have dedicated their
careers to improving systems that are failing many students today, especially
minority students. Why don’t you give money to fight climate change? Bill: We do! Some of it involves
our foundation, and some of it involves our own personal investments. Personally,
we’re investing in innovations that will cut back on greenhouse gases (what’s
called climate-change mitigation). The world needs new sources of reliable,
affordable clean energy, but it has been dramatically underfunding the research
that would produce these breakthroughs. This funding
gap is different from the problems we work on at the foundation. In
philanthropy, you look for problems that can’t be fixed by the market or
governments. Right now,
public and private spending on clean energy isn’t coordinated, which is one
reason some promising technologies don’t make it to market. We want to bridge
that gap. Melinda: Even breakthrough
technology can’t stop the weather from changing. So the world needs to adapt to
what’s happening now and what we know is coming. That’s why our foundation’s
work, especially in global agriculture, is increasingly focused on climate issues. Hundreds of
millions of people in developing countries depend on farming for their
livelihoods. They had almost nothing to do with causing climate change, but
they will suffer the most from it. When extreme weather ruins their harvest,
they won’t have food to eat that year. For smallholder farmers, climate change
is not just an ominous global trend. It is a daily emergency.  Green Super Rice and Scuba Rice, which this
farmer has planted, have been bred to withstand extreme weather. Are you
imposing your values on other cultures? Bill: On one level, I think the
answer is obviously no. The idea that children shouldn’t die of malaria or be
malnourished is not just our value. It’s a human value. Parents in every
culture want their children to survive and thrive. Sometimes,
though, the person asking this question is raising a deeper issue. It’s not so
much a question about what we do, but how we do it. Do we really understand
people’s needs? Melinda: We’re acutely aware that
some development programmes in the past were led by people who assumed they
knew better than the people they were trying to help. We’ve learned over the
years that listening and understanding people’s needs from their perspective is
not only more respectful—it’s also more effective. Our foundation is designed
with this principle in mind. When we say "we" work on a certain
issue, we don’t mean that Bill or I or the foundation’s employees are
installing sewage systems in rapidly growing cities, delivering treatments
for river blindness, or training farmers to rotate their crops. What we
mean is that we fund organizations with years and sometimes decades of local
experience that do those things. These organizations, our thousands of
partners, keep us connected to the people we’re trying to help. We try to
approach our work with humility about what we don’t know and the determination
to learn from our mistakes. Does
saving kids’ lives lead to overpopulation? Melinda:  Hans Rosling, the brilliant and inspiring
public health advocate who died last year, was great at answering this question.
When more children live past the age of 5, and when mothers can decide if and
when to have children, population sizes don’t go up. They go down. Parents have
fewer children when they’re confident those children will survive into
adulthood. We see this pattern throughout history. All over the world, when
death rates among children go down, so do birth rates. It happened in France in
the late 1700s. It happened in Germany in the late 1800s. Argentina in the
1910s, Brazil in the 1960s, Bangladesh in the 1980s. Bill: There’s another benefit to
the pattern Melinda describes—which is that it can lead to a burst of economic
growth that economists call "the demographic dividend." Here’s how it
works. When more
children live, you get one generation that’s relatively big. Then, when
families decide to have fewer children, the next generation is much smaller.
Eventually, a country ends up with relatively more people in the labour force
producing economically—and relatively fewer dependents. That’s a recipe for
rapid economic development, especially if countries take advantage of it by
investing in health and education. Fortunately, the number of child deaths is
likely to keep going down. The rate of innovation in child health is
extraordinary, and the world is starting to make progress on some of the most stubborn
challenges in the field. Melinda: Saving the lives of
children is its own justification. But this demographic transition can happen
in a reasonable period of time only if all women have access to contraceptives.
Right now, more than 200 million don’t. How are Donald
Trump’s policies affecting your foundation’s work? Bill: In the past year, I’ve been
asked about President Trump and his policies more often than all the other
topics in this letter combined. The
administration’s policies affect our foundation’s work in several areas. The
most concrete example is foreign aid. For decades the United States has been a
leader in the fight against disease and poverty abroad. These efforts save
lives. They also create US jobs. And they make Americans more secure by making
poor countries more stable and stopping disease outbreaks before they become
pandemics. The world is not a safer place when more people are sick or hungry. President
Trump proposed severe cuts to foreign aid. To its credit, Congress has moved to
put the money back in the budget. More
broadly, the America First worldview concerns me. It’s not that the United
States shouldn’t look out for its people. The question is how best to do that.
My view is that engaging with the world has proven over time to benefit
everyone, including Americans, more than withdrawing does. We have met
with President Trump and his team, just as we have met with people in previous
administrations. With every administration, we agree on some things and
disagree on others. Although we disagree with this administration more than the
others, we believe it's still important to work together whenever possible. We
keep talking to them because if the US cuts back on its investments abroad,
people in other countries will die, and Americans will be worse off. Melinda: We need to work with the
administration to garner as much support as we can for policies that will
benefit the most impoverished people in the world. In our US work, one premise
we start with is that a college degree or career certificate is critical to a
successful future. In short, a college education should be a pathway to
prosperity for all Americans. The Trump administration’s leadership, along with
Congress’s, will have a lot to do with whether it is. Why do
you work with corporations? Melinda: We work with companies
like GSK and Johnson & Johnson because they can do things no one else can. Take the
example of developing new diagnostics, drugs, and vaccines. The basic science
that underlies product development happens at research centres and
universities. But when the goal is to build upon basic science, translate it
into products that save lives, get those products tested and approved, and then
manufacture those products, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have the
vast majority of the necessary expertise. Bill: We think poor people should
benefit from the same kind of innovation in health and agriculture that has
improved life in the richest parts of the world. Much of that innovation comes
out of the private sector. But companies have to make a return on their
investments, which means they have little incentive to work on problems that
mainly affect the world’s poorest people. We’re trying to change that. So, for
instance, we’re funding two early-stage companies that are working on ways to
use messenger RNA to teach your body how to produce its own vaccines. It could
lead to breakthroughs in HIV and malaria—as well as flu and even cancer. Is it
fair that you have so much influence? Melinda: No. It’s not fair that we
have so much wealth when billions of others have so little. And it’s not fair
that our wealth opens doors that are closed to most people. World leaders tend
to take our phone calls and seriously consider what we have to say.
Cash-strapped school districts are more likely to divert money and talent
toward ideas they think we will fund. But there is
nothing secret about our objectives as a foundation. We are committed to being
open about what we fund and what the results have been. We do this work, and
use whatever influence we have, to help as many people as possible and to
advance equity around the world. I think it would be hard to argue at this
point that we made the world focus too much on health, education, or poverty. Bill: As much as we try to
encourage feedback, we know that some of our critics don’t speak up because
they don’t want to risk losing money. That means we need to hire well, consult
experts, learn constantly, and seek out different viewpoints. Even though
our foundation is the biggest in the world, the money we have is very small
compared to what businesses and governments spend. There’s
another issue at the heart of this question. If we think it’s unfair that we
have so much wealth, why don’t we give it all to the government? The answer
is that we think there’s always going to be a unique role for foundations.
They’re able to take a global view to find the greatest needs, take a long-term
approach to solving problems, and manage high-risk projects that governments
can’t take on and corporations won’t. If a
government tries an idea that fails, someone wasn’t doing their job. Whereas if
we don’t try some ideas that fail, we’re not doing our jobs. What happens when the two of you disagree? Melinda: We never disagree. Just
kidding. Bill almost
never gets this question. I get it all the time. Sometimes, it’s from
journalists hinting that Bill must be the one making the decisions. Other
times, it’s from women philanthropists asking advice about how to work more
effectively with their husbands. Bill and I
have two things going in our favour. First, we
agree on basic values. Second, Bill
is very open-minded, which isn’t necessarily how people perceive him. I love
Bill because he has a kind heart, listens to other people, and lets himself be
moved by what they say. When I tell a story about what I’ve seen, he feels it.
He might ask me to gather some data for good measure, but he doesn’t doubt the
reality of my experiences or the soundness of my judgment. When Bill
first came over to the foundation from Microsoft, he was used to being in
charge. I’d stayed home with our kids, so I was restarting my career. There
were times I felt that disparity—in meetings when I was reticent and he was
voluble, or when the person we were meeting with looked toward Bill and not me.
It’s always been important to us that we are equal partners in our foundation’s
work. Gradually,
I’ve focused more on gender issues, because I’ve seen repeatedly that the more
empowered women and girls are, the stronger their communities are. I’ve been
proud that Bill and I have achieved equality in our life together. Bill: I agree with all of this!
Though I have to admit that Melinda is more comfortable with—and better
at—talking in public about personal subjects than I am. We agree on
the big issues. Our occasional disagreements these days are over tactics.
Because I've been a public figure longer, and because I’m a man, some people
assume I am making the big decisions. That's never been the case. Why are
you really giving your money away—what’s in it for you? Bill: It’s not because we think
about how we’ll be remembered. We would be delighted if someday diseases like
polio and malaria are a distant memory, and the fact that we worked on them is
too. There are
two reasons to do something like this. One is that it’s meaningful work. Once
you’ve taken care of yourself and your children, the best use of extra wealth
is to give it back to society. The other
reason is that we have fun doing it. Both of us love digging into the science
behind our work. At the foundation, it’s computer science plus biology,
chemistry, agronomy, and more. I’ll spend hours talking to a crop researcher or
an HIV expert, and then I’ll go home, dying to tell Melinda what I’ve learned. It’s rare to
have a job where you get to have both a big impact and a lot of fun. I had it
with Microsoft, and I have it with the foundation. Melinda: We
both come from families that believed in leaving the world better than you
found it. When we got to know Warren Buffett, we discovered that he was steeped
in those same values, even though he grew up in a different place and at a
different time. When Warren entrusted us with giving away a large portion of
his wealth, we redoubled our efforts to live up to the values we share. Of course, these values are not unique to us. Millions of
people give back by volunteering their time and donating money to help others.
We are, however, in the more unusual position of having a lot of money to
donate. Bill and I have been doing this work for 18 years. We do the
work because it’s our life. This letter
has been edited for brevity. Read the full letter here.