The Fearless
Organization: Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace for Learning,
Innovation, and Growth.By Amy C.
Edmondson In 1756 the
Irish statesman Edmund Burke wrote: "No passion so effectively robs the
mind of all its powers of acting and reasoning as fear." A work
environment where fear is present is a hangover from the organisational culture
of the Industrial Revolution. Its debilitating effects were identified by MIT
professors Edgar Schein and Warren Bennis in 1965. Professor Amy Edmondson of
Harvard has added an important feature this chain of insights – what to do
about this. Growth and
competitive advantage today is a function of knowledge and innovation in nearly
every industry. "The goal of this book is to help you do just that – and
to equip you with some new ideas and practices to make knowledge-intensive
organisations work better," writes Edmondson. For knowledge
work to be successful requires a workplace where people feel able to share
their knowledge and have no reason to hold back. This book is
based on a plethora of research over the past 20 years into "psychological
safety" and it goes a long way to explain the differences in performance
in workplaces across hospitals, factories, schools, and government agencies. In
psychologically safe workplaces, people are aware they might fail, and they might
be told they are not meeting expectations. However, in a psychologically safe
workplace, people are not held back from contributing by interpersonal fear. In a safe
workplace they feel comfortable sharing concerns and mistakes without fear of
embarrassment or retribution; rather they are comfortable expressing and being
themselves. In this environment, mistakes are reported quickly so that quick
corrective action can be taken; there is seamless coordination across teams and
potentially game-changing ideas for innovation are shared. In 2017 the Gallup
poll found that only 3 in 10 employees strongly agree with the statement that
their opinions count at work. If you could improve that score to 6 in 10, it
would yield a 27% reduction in turnover, a 40% reduction in safety incidents
and a 12% increase in productivity. Consider a
young nurse who observes a very senior doctor omit a procedure in his treatment
of a child. He is known for his violent temper and humiliation of junior staff.
So she doesn’t say anything and the doctor moves on. The next day the child
dies. The effect of
fear is that it freezes the brain, so it focuses on the immediate issue – to confront
and be humiliated, or to say nothing and maybe all will turn out okay. This
freezing leads to discounting the important commitment to the patients' health.
At that moment the employee "couldn’t" speak up – literally – and, as
we know, failure to speak up in a crucial moment cannot be seen. "Airplanes
have crashed, financial institutions have fallen, and hospital patients have
died unnecessarily because individuals were, for reasons having to do with the
climate in which they worked, afraid to speak up," Edmondson reports. These
are obviously extreme examples, but they do highlight the importance of the
issue. No one goes
to work to look ignorant and incompetent. This is called interpersonal risks
and is to be avoided in most workplaces. The moments, and no one is the wiser
except the person who held back. A work
environment is psychologically safe when colleagues trust and respect each
other and feel able – even obligated – to be candid. Dozens of studies show
greater learning, performance, and even lower mortality as a result of
psychological safety. Research in neuroscience shows that fear consumes
physiological resources, diverting them from parts of the brain that manage
working memory and the processing of new information. Psychological
safety is the responsibility of immediate leaders. It is not about being ‘nice’:
it is about candour, about making it possible for productive disagreement and
free exchange of ideas. It is not about lowering performance standards, on the
contrary, an environment of mutual respect and psychological safety is
conducive to setting ambitious goals and working toward them together. "In any
challenging industry setting, leaders have two vital tasks," Edmondson
explains. "One, they must build psychological safety to spur learning and
avoid preventable failures; two, they must set high standards and inspire and enable
people to reach them." Your greatest
fear as a manager at any level is that people aren't telling you the truth. In
so many environments the unspoken rules are: Don't criticise something the manager
may have helped create. Don't speak unless you have solid data. Don't speak up
if the manager’s manager is present. And so on. Speaking up has career
consequences. Careful
studies of failures from Nokia to Wells Fargo, from VW’s emissions fraud to the
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, were all clearly manmade. The direct causes
of the accident were all foreseeable. All these disasters happened in
environments of fear. All were environments in which speaking up was belittled
and warnings go unheeded. The book
describes environments that are deliberately and carefully constructed to be
ever more psychologically safe. These include the remarkable Pixar Animation
Studios, Ray Dalio’s extraordinarily successful Bridgewater Hedge Fund, and more. These cultures
are a function of time and consistency, and there is no quick fix. But you have
to start the journey. Feedback must
be constructive – and about the project, not the person. Comments are
suggestions, not prescriptions. Candid feedback is not a "gotcha" but
must come from a place of empathy. Discussion about issues is build on each
other’s ideas to creating new value. It is okay to
make mistakes, but unacceptable not to identify, analyse, and learn from them. You might start
by changing your language, as they did in one hospital. Instead of an "investigation"
into an adverse event, the hospital would use the term "study;"
instead of ‘error’ they suggested people use the words ‘accident’ or ‘failure’.
They asked staff: "Was everything as safe as you would like it to have
been this week with your patients?" The question is
genuine, curious, and direct. It is respectful and concrete: "this week,"
"your patients." Your journey
as a manager will start when you appreciate the economic value of a psychologically
safe workplace, and the economic cost of an unsafe one. Then read
this book and scour it for ideas that will work for your people. Readability         Light
---+- Serious Insights                High
+---- Low Practical               High -+--- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and
implementation and is the author of ‘Strategy that Works’ and ‘The Executive
Update.’ Views expressed are his own.