Just over a
year ago, before the ANC's 2017 elective conference that helped
us start seeing the back of Zuma - well, more or
less - and usher-in a 'New Dawn' of sorts, many South
Africans were a lot more certain about whom they'd vote
against and for than they seem to be today. DA voters
were still as convinced that Mmusi Maimane stood a good chance of
becoming the country's next president as EFF supporters were that their
on-and-off cantankerous Commander-In-Chief would take over the reins. Thanks
to Zuma, the ANC was a goner in those days, with its back against
wall, even if they would never admit to it. The arrival
of Cyril Ramaphosa, drumming his "Thuma Mina" chant into
every microphone he could approach, heralded havoc for
many. The word 'euphoria' made its way back into the national political
discourse again, with some labelling Ramaphosa the political son
late president Mandela had wished to have. Like a
diphthong, no one found the tongue slide from 'euphoria'
to Ramaphoria a hard one to accomplish. But for many in the
so-called "Black Middle Class" – especially those who had either
stayed at home or strategically voted for the EFF
in the 2016 Local Government Elections (a jump from ANC to
DA remained a hard feat for many to achieve or to publicly admit having
accomplished) - the time for reckoning had come much earlier than expected. Ramaphosa promised
to be a different man and leader, they argued at braais and dinner
parties, initially far from microphones, almost trying to convince
themselves more than anyone else. For them, it was more important that he
was not in Zuma's camp and that he had promised a new way, than wanting to
know what he had heard, seen or consented to during his five years as Zuma's
number two man, willingly or under duress. Ramaquestions Fast-forward
a year after Ramaphosa assumed the country's interim
presidency, ahead of the 2019 general elections, his impact on the minds
of many South Africans is as confusing as ever; and the questions are
many. Is he for
real? What if something comes out of one of the Inquiry currently underway
seriously implicating him in wrongdoing, deliberate or
inadvertent? Will he really provide the new NDPP with the political
cover she will need, no matter what, and ensure that the
NPA is adequately equipped to carry out its mandate without fear or
favour? What about
growing rumours that his family ties with Patrice Motsepe and Jeff Radebe might
lead him to make political decisions with a bias or favouring Motsepe's energy
business? And, finally, how powerful, really,
is Ramaphosa within the ANC and how determined are those of his
comrades – the Zuma coalition of the panicking and
scared – to do everything they can to torpedo his recovery
plans, especially where they concern strengthening the might of the criminal
justice system? The key
question for many is this: Will a vote for the ANC with Ramaphosa at
its helm (we do not vote for individuals in South Africa) really
give Ramaphosa the power many imagine he needs to help
South Africa recover from the past ten years of criminal madness –
especially with the removal of criminally implicated
individuals from the Cabinet and all ANC structures – or
will a vote for the ANC strengthen only the ANC to do what the ANC
does best, i.e. to keep on keeping on? No
credible alternative It is clear
that opposition parties cannot simply rely on voters being
disappointed in the ANC in order for such voters to simply place their
valuable crosses next to them. They too have work to
do to effectively sell themselves and attract new support. They must
show more political thigh than they have been, to date. The EFF will not
admit to it, but its leaders have been seriously rattled by
accusations – still to be tested in a court of law – of complicity in
the staggering VBS heist. Their
strange support of SARS' wrecking ball, Tom Moyane, against all
evidence that has come out on the role he played for Zuma and his friends in
weakening our valuable state revenue collection authority, as well
as further allegations of unethical benefits from lucrative
municipal tenders in Tshwane and Johannesburg, have robbed them of the "anti-corruption
crusaders" badge they so much wanted to claim. The DA is
in no better position. Increasing numbers of its supporters have not been
shy, in recent months, of stating their disappointment in the party. Its 'alternative
policy package' offering seems hesitant as its leader has come under
criticism for lacking the assertiveness and independence of mind required to
lead an ambitious opposition party. Several
intraparty squabbles that led to very public slam-door departures in the past
year have also not helped the DA retain the confidence of some
of its members. Moreover, the 'halo' of clean governance under the DA has meanwhile
accumulated its share of blemishes. COPE, the
UDM, the ACDP and other smaller parties are unlikely to replace any of the
big three in the coming elections, but the strong voices of reason that often
come out of their leaders in the national assembly are valuable in our
multiparty democracy, as the space to "speak truth to power" is
something we should continue to cherish, in South Africa, as it becomes
increasingly threatened in many parts of the world, especially in Africa,
the Middle-East, China, and Russia. And the UDM's Chief Whip, Nqabayomzi Kwankwa, is
a rising political star to keep watching. Rama-opportunities Amidst all
the pre-electoral voter confusion, President Cyril Ramaphosa must
never underestimate the depth of desperation that many South
Africans inside and outside the ANC harbour for him to succeed. He remains,
for many, the least of the devils for now; and many feel a
strange sense of guilt if they do not give him a chance, however they
define chance. But
this hope is packaged more for him than it is for the party he leads –
still heavily infested with all the crooks of our times. He must find ways
to remain as clean, as credible, as different, and as honest with South
Africans as he can. This is all many ask of him. He is
their electoral Eskom; if he fails – everything remaining equal in
our political power balance – South Africa will also fall. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and
CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation
Managers. Views expressed are his own.