That
bespoke necklace or twee craft you buy on Etsy’s marketplace now comes with a
pledge that some of the fuel burned to get it to your door is being offset by
green investments. The New
York-based e-commerce company said Wednesday that it will begin buying carbon
offsets to manage the environmental impact of sellers and buyers shipping items
sold on its website, becoming what may be the first US e-commerce firm to take
that step. Carbon offsets let a company that emits greenhouse gases buy credits
from a green project that’s reducing carbon in the atmosphere. "The
free shipping we’re used to actually isn’t free," said Chelsea Mozen,
sustainability lead at Etsy. "When people think of the environmental
impact from e-commerce, they immediately jump to packaging—but emissions from
shipping has a big environmental cost." Etsy, which
said it’s been calculating its emissions since 2013, said buyers and sellers on
its website generated 135 459 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents from
shipping last year, or about 98% of the company’s entire carbon
footprint. That’s the same amount of emissions from the electricity used to
power more than 23 000 homes for one year. To
calculate the figure, the company looked at the weight of packages and
distances between buyers and sellers. Then it added an estimate of additional emissions
generated by roundabout routes, Mozen said. The company said it also hired
auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers to check its work. Etsy would
say only that it plans to spend several hundred thousand dollars on the
initiative this year. Projects it plans to help fund include those aimed at
protecting forests, generating wind power and developing lower-emission auto
parts. The company estimated that the cost to consumers of these offsets will
be less than one penny per package. Shipping comes at a cost The move
comes as e-retailers are starting to pay more attention to the environmental
cost of fast, free shipping, an option that’s increasingly offered with
purchases. More than 100 billion packages a year are expected to be shipped
worldwide by 2020, according to Pitney Bowes, and that rate has been growing by
17% to 28% a year. "Even
though we don’t directly control that shipping, we feel responsible for it
because we’ve enabled it." And just as
the food industry recognizes the commercial value of organic and humane
labeling, it’s arguable that e-commerce companies will benefit by promising
consumers they’re making an effort to combat global warming. Etsy said
it estimated that the entire US e-commerce sector generates about 55 000
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per day from shipping. Most
e-commerce firms don’t report any information about their greenhouse gas
emissions, though Amazon.com Inc. said earlier this month that it would report
its carbon footprint for the first time later this year, and promised to
improve its processes to make half of its shipping carbon neutral by 2030. Carbon
offsets are usually seen as an indirect way to reduce carbon emissions because
the offset buyer isn’t making outright reductions in fossil fuel burning. Etsy
said that its unique structure leaves it at the mercy of buyers and sellers,
who make their own choices about shipping methods. "Even
though we don’t directly control that shipping, we feel responsible for it
because we’ve enabled it," Mozen said. "We want consumers to know
what responsible e-commerce can look like."