In recent months I have been invited to at
least three different events organised by different civil society and social
justice movements. At the core of the discussions, in all of them, was the desire
to find a way to pull back some of the powers that were too trustingly – even
naively – handed over to the governing ANC in the early 1990s. Many will recall that even the once-effective,
multiracial, United Democratic Front that used to be at the forefront of the
internal resistance to and fight against apartheid, was dismantled soon after
the ANC and other anti-apartheid movements were unbanned and allowed to operate
again on home soil. In the general euphoria of those days,
there seemed to have been an unwritten consensus that with former exiles and
those who had been imprisoned for decades back home, the leadership baton could
be safely handed over to them. There was very little talk of 'what if' or a
need for 'checks and balances'. It was assumed that the returnees invested with
the powers to lead our nation, united in its diversity, could only do right for
country and all the people of South Africa. In those early days, even much of the
direct foreign funding of non-government organisations lightening the heavy
yoke off the shoulders of the poor and the oppressed in many parts of the
society slowly came to a trickle and, in most cases, eventually to a complete stop. Again, in the euphoric dawn of the
post-apartheid era, everyone seemed to agree that the funds that had for many
decades gone directly into the coffers of NGOs, civic movements and other
constructive contributors in the broader social justice arena would be best
utilised if paid directly into the coffers of the new government of the people
by the people. Some former social activists packed their
stuff and went off to either retire blissfully or to find something else to
live on. Others got lucky enough to get government jobs. Over time, too, increasing numbers of many
former exiles trickled back into the country to take key leadership positions in
government. The new masters had returned and the future already looked bright. SA problems, SA solutions With the government of the people by the
people in place, there was also no longer a need for South Africans unhappy
about anything on home soil to run to the UN, foreign embassies or their governments,
or to other outside bodies. As we know, this is a resistance stratagem
that was resorted to quite a lot, during apartheid, to expose the evil ways of
the National Party and everyone linked to it. In many cases it worked quite magnificently,
as it resulted in the apartheid government coming under tremendous pressure
from around the world. The ANC and other formations in exiles
also supported this stratagem and, in many cases, either initiated its
activation or actively drove it. That is how apartheid South Africa eventually came down to its
knees under the pressure of global economic sanctions or, put another way, isolation
by direct foreign investors. In those days, there were threats of boycotts
of many kinds – supported by the 'inxiles' at home and the exiles in the diaspora – economic
sanctions, political isolation, sports and academic boycotts, etc. Over time,
it became uncool in many parts of the world for anyone to publicly proclaim any
association with the apartheid government of South Africa. So, even in an era during which
smartphones and digital media, including social media platforms, did not or
barely existed, 'telling on' the government of the day and relying on outsiders
to act, became an effective moral tool against the National Party. The post-apartheid emotional blackmail It is probably because of the history of
how 'reliance on outside pressure' was used and played an effective part in the
past that South Africans in the new era so easily seem to fall for the
emotional bludgeoning that consists of being treated as something akin to
enemies of the state, close to being treasonous, or of wanting to help former
colonisers – the same ones we constantly beg to invest in our economy –  to "reverse the gains of democracy". The latter expression is part of the most
effective post-apartheid blackmail arsenal used against anyone who places the
spotlight on questionable conduct by those who have been trusted to govern in
the new era. But South Africans should never forget the
values enshrined in their country's Constitution and Bill of Rights. Some of these are transparency, adherence
to a human rights culture, law-driven governance, respect of the independent
democratic institutions that were established to help make the promises espoused in our
Constitution come true, the need to build South Africa into a true home for
all, and to be a positive contributor and leader to human endeavour, at home
and abroad. Only those with nefarious intentions to
hide will resort to emotional blackmail. Those who love South Africa must not
be cowered by the blackmail and be forced to stop insisting that our country by
led ethically, in accordance to the rule of law and the principle of equality
before the law. It must also be a shining example that remains visible for scrutiny to the entire
world as such. And no rules of diplomatic protocol should
be used as an excuse to defend the indefensible. The past ten years have shown
us, more than ever before, that in the case of those who rely on powerful
political connections to weaken and repurpose our vital institutions to rob us of the resources we
need – we might yet again need to apply pressure from other parts of the world. In the absence of any real action taken against the people we trusted to lead, this
pressure may help our country
can recalibrate yet again. Allowing ourselves to be blackmailed into misplaced
patriotic silence so that criminals can continue running amok, far from the
glare of the outside world, can never be in the best interest of South Africa. If
we do this, we'd be complicit in the madness. * Solly Moeng is brand
reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications
consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.