The former head of Africa's largest pension-fund manager
says he was removed from his job so that politically connected people could
influence the fund's investment decisions. Daniel Matjila is expected to tell a special commission of
inquiry on Monday that he was pressured to make deals that didn't fit with the Public
Investment Corporation's (PIC) strategies, according to his prepared statement.
Speaking for the first time since his ouster in November, Matjila himself will
assert that he was removed deliberately. The inquiry is into whether the fund, which oversees about R2.2trn
in assets, deviated from its mission to best safeguard pensions for more than
1.2 million South African state workers. President Cyril Ramaphosa ordered the investigation in
October last year, one of a handful he's instituted to probe alleged graft
since taking office 16 months ago after Jacob Zuma's scandal-marred nine-year
rule. The ongoing inquiry has heard from about 70 witnesses –
several of whom flagged Matjila himself as playing a key role in approving
questionable deals. He's expected to deny that. There's been no conclusive
evidence that PIC officials directly benefited from the fund's actions. Attempts by senior politicians and various business people
to secure PIC funding go as far back as 2005, when Matjila, 57, became chief
investment officer, according to the statement. He was named chief executive
officer in 2014. During his time as CEO, the PIC had three changes of chairman
based on the tradition that the deputy minister of finance heads the board. Matjila is to say a deliberate plan to remove him became
clear after an anonymous whistle-blower made allegations of financial
wrongdoing at the fund manager about two years ago. While the PIC has largely
delivered market-beating returns, its mandate also includes aiding broader
social development to mitigate the effects of apartheid. This is often done
through PIC's unlisted investments – the category that witnesses have flagged
as producing the most dubious deals. Matjila will respond to accusations on deals including the
PIC's R4bn investment in Erin Energy; the acquisition of a stake in Total SA by
Tosaco Energy; and transactions involving S&S Refinery in Mozambique,
Steinhoff International Holdings, VBS Mutual Bank and technology company Ayo
Technology Solutions. Deal talk He will also talk about a R5bn bridging loan PIC advanced to
state power company Eskom on behalf of the Government Employee Pension Fund for
one month in February 2018, and he will say his ouster was rushed so that PIC
could sign off on a rescue of South Africa's second-biggest clothing retailer,
Edcon Holdings. Matjila also will tell the commission about deals he
rejected: with Trillian Capital Partners, a financial consultancy company
linked to the politically connected Gupta family and Regiments Capital. PIC outperforms In February, almost the entire board, including Mondli
Gungubele, the PIC's chairman and South Africa's then-deputy finance minister,
tendered their resignations after the money manager ordered a forensic probe
into whether acting CEO Matshepo More and two non-executive directors had acted
inappropriately. They've remained in their posts while Finance Minister Tito
Mboweni decides on their replacements. The commission is expected to make its recommendations to
the president by the end of this month. Matjila is to say the PIC should be
made independent of government influence and that deal origination must be properly
controlled. He sees the political approaches partly as a result of a mistaken
belief that he was solely responsible for whether deals happened. Former board member Claudia Manning in January told the
commission that the PIC would be better off without the country's deputy
finance minister chairing its board because it exposes the continent's biggest
money manager to the perception of political interference. Matjila will suggest to the commission that the law
governing the PIC act should be changed to ensure independence. The financial
services regulator could take charge of the appointment of directors with no
government involvement, for instance. He is also expected to propose that directors should have
minimum terms of five years to ensure stability and to oversee investment
strategies.