Shoprite [JSE:SHP] rallied
the most in 22 years after Africa's largest food retailer said second-half
sales climbed as it took market share. Sales in the second half rose 6.5% as its core SA
business returned to full operational strength, the Cape Town-based supermarket
operator said in a trading update on Tuesday. Local operations grew sales by 7.4% in the six
months to June and 9.4% in the final quarter. However, supermarkets outside the
country saw a 7.7% decline in turnover, impacting overall performance, which
Shoprite attributed to currency devaluations in major African countries where
it trades. Angola’s supermarkets, the largest contributor in
Shoprite’s non-domestic portfolio, saw sales decline 38.4% in rand terms. The owner of chains including Checkers and U-Save
introduced a new IT system and faced some industrial action in its first half.
In the second six months, product availability improved significantly and
surpassed levels that it had before the new system was installed. Shoprite has more than 2 500 stores throughout
Africa, but a considerable majority are in South Africa. The retailer plans to
open 88 stores in the next year. Elsewhere in Africa, Shoprite is also seeing
positive momentum after problems such as currency devaluations and shortages
drove up costs. Shoprite says it’s still optimistic about the long-term food
retail opportunity on the continent. Market reaction The stock rallied as much as 15%, the biggest
intraday gain since October 29, 1997, according to Bloomberg. By 12:11 on
Tuesday, shares were changing hands at R11.23, up 7.71%. Before today’s statement, the shares had dropped
32% this year. Standout performers Shoprite said alcohol sales had also recorded
strong growth in the 12 months to June, despite a challenging period for foods
as felt the pinch in a weak economic climate. Calling its alcohol division, LiquorShop, a "standout
performer", Shoprite said it had added strong double-digit growth for the
period, including increased appetite for liquor home delivery. The retailer said it will this week open its 500th
LiquorShop. Online sales, which include Click & Collect
orders and an on-demand liquor home delivery partnership, increased 386%, with
rapid customer acceptance, the company said. 