Last month saw the idea of a new, 21st Century city,
complete with bullet trains, widely broadcast, all within the framework of a "developmental
state". But what this really boiled down to was a rehash of 20th Century
concepts that produced Shenzhen, Brazilia, Canberra — even London’s Barbican —
and, of course, the bullet trains and economic resurgence of post war Japan. In other words, it amounted to looking backward and
projecting forward, without taking full cognisance of radically changed
circumstances. Not that there has been no mention of "developments that go
far beyond technology" and that could impact on the economic and social
system. The problem, as always, seems to be that these looming
problems are seen as difficulties to be carefully managed within the existing
economic system and the socio-political realities that flow from it. That the
framework itself — the system of increasing inequality in which we live— may be
the real problem tends to be all but ignored. So we continue to hear debates about how to upskill and
educate the workforce in order to become more competitive; this in the face of
the first technological revolution that could replace almost all human labour. In
a world that already has the capacity to produce a surplus of probably every
socially necessary product, this is clearly nonsense. Cost-cutting Competition among producers also means cost-cutting that not
only speeds up the process of automation, but also continues to pollute the
oceans, soil and air. Such competition, geared to maximise profits for a tiny
minority, is harmful not only to the planet, but to the vast, and increasingly
unemployed, majority. Yet the great technological advances that threaten — perhaps
within the next 30 years — to make much of humanity redundant, have the
capacity to create a better life for all. But not within the existing economic
system and the political and social framework that sustains it. As the scientist and speculative fiction author, Isaac
Asimov noted, half a century ago: "The saddest aspect of life right now is
that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom." But
wisdom tends to come to the majority only with access to accurate information
and the self-confidence borne of democratic control. Yet the working majority — whether currently employed or
unemployed — are deprived of real power. We are told look to leaders who are,
in most cases, merely the pipers who are paid by the rich minority who call the
tunes designed to beguile us. Only when the majority realises that society is trapped in —
and acts to break out of — this ideological prison, will the true potential for
practical dreaming arrive. The potential exists. What it requires is a clear
pathway to implementation. Leaders making what amount to wild promises without any
effective thought as to how they may be achieved, cause bitterness and
frustration. Revolutions that herald new dawns do not emerge from such
scenarios, they tend to fuel often wanton destruction and the release of
directionless fury; we already have enough of that on an almost daily basis
around the country. Early warning In previous columns on this topic I have quoted the "father
of cybernetics", Norbert Wiener, as having warned in 1949 about the
economic inequalities and growing joblessness we now face. But he also saw that
the age of the machine could liberate humanity. It could. And it might still do so if, to again quote
Wiener, "We can be humble and live a good life with the aid of the
machines, or we can be arrogant and die." Humility in this case means accepting the inherent equality
of all humanity, democratic control, rather than the arrogance of the rulers
over the ruled. And that means the radical transformation of the political and
social system and the dismantling of a global economy based on the exploitation
of the many by the few. Over the past week, there was a largely missed chance to
deal with this at the first digital economic summit in South Africa. Looming
problems such as automation leading to "large scale displacement" and
the rise in inequality in a world of high-tech producers and low-tech consumers
were raised at the Johannesburg gathering. But in talking about a "digitally enabled economy that
is transformative, fair, sustainable and competitive" President Cyril
Ramaphosa again looked backwards. It was almost a case of reinventing the wheel
when he raised the prospect of a South African "Silicon Valley". Wasted potential The world has been there — and done that. In China today,
for example, there are more than 1 600 innovation hubs and high-tech cities
dotted around the country: many "Silicon Valleys" competing with one
another and constantly reducing the need for human labour. The call to be competitive is the fault. In such a system,
there are winners and losers among the competing corporations and their
billionaire chiefs. But the major losers in every case are the increasingly
disposable working masses. This amounts to the most horrendous waste of human talent
and resources; talent that could be liberated by technological innovation to
help build a truly great and peaceful world. And it is not as if the human
talent and ability does not exist. Ignored, even disparaged, for example, are the innovations
employed by the waste pickers who, despite incredible odds, manage to survive
and support families on the detritus of society. There are also legions of
working homeless, already part of the army of the discarded, who often display
an entrepreneurial flair rarely found even in the upper echelons of business. These are just two examples of the most horrific waste of
human potential that will only become worse, across the board, if radical steps
are not taken to break out of the ideological prison that history has
bequeathed us. It has to start somewhere and South Africa seems as good a place
as any.