To many, Yekaterinburg, in Russia, is the city best
remembered for the bloody assassination of Tsar Nickolas II, Emperor of Russia,
his family, the Romanovs, and a number of support staff members who had been
imprisoned with the Romanovs, by the Bolshevik revolutionaries on the early
morning of July 17, 1918. A bloody and glorious yesterday The executions took place in Ipatiev House, which
belonged to a local merchant and in which the Romanovs had been imprisoned for
some 78 days before the revolutionaries arrived to finish them off. Ipatiev
House has since been destroyed and, in its place, construction began in 2000
for the 'Church on Blood in Honour of All Saints Resplendent in the Russian
land', and completed in 2003, when it was opened to the public. However, Yekaterinburg's more recent history is decidedly
inseparable from a certain Boris Yeltsin, the first post-Soviet president of what
is now known as Russia. He's also the man who anointed current President
Vladimir Putin to be his successor. But those who claim to have more intimate details
of the story cannot resist adding a conspiracy angle to it, claiming that Putin
was in fact not Yeltsin's first choice of successor, but a product of a deal that
was struck by an initially reluctant Yeltsin and people who were threatening
his family's interests if he didn't give them what they wanted. We shall leave
that part to true historians to unpack. What remains undeniable is that Yekaterinburg
loves Boris Yeltsin and is forever grateful to him for having placed it on the world
map again, with lots of vodka, colour, music, and dance – or uncoordinated stomping
on stages, if you will. It boasts a modern Boris Yeltsin Centre and Museum
which buzzes with activity every day of the week, thanks to the commercial
tenants who run restaurants, a VIP Hotel that gets used by visiting heads of
state and other high-profile guests, as well as several pleasantly themed curio
shops. One of the former president's Chaika cars also
sits just inside the front foyer of the centre. Unlike many monuments of its
kind, the Boris Yeltsin Centre seems to pay its own bills and is unlikely to be
a white elephant any time soon. Coming into the future Yekaterinburg is also the capital city of the entire
Ural Region of Russia. A more future looking addition to its collection of
impressive historic buildings is the Yekaterinburg Expo, a modern International
Exhibition Centre which will host two prestigious global conference and expos, Innoprom
and GMIS, on 8-9 July 2019, which will target the global manufacturing and
industrial sectors. At a recent MICE Day (Meetings, Incentives,
Conferences, and Events), last week, the Russians also made it clear that they're
ready to play an increasingly dominant role in this multi-billion rand industry,
and that Yekaterinburg is being positioned as the biggest and most future-ready
host city for them. The
Russians are hungry for knowledge and they're hungry for business. To boot, they're
now discussing introducing e-Visas from as early as 2021 to make access easier. The other sign of a nascent outward-looking attitude
is the unusually English name of the 'Yekaterinburg Expo, International
Exhibition Centre' written in large letters on the highway facing front of the
structure with no translation in Russian. Few things are named in English in
Russia, and few Russians speak English. The few foreign delegates who were invited to
the event, including this writer, emphasised that to integrate the global industry,
compromise was important on a number of important points. The need for quality training of workers servicing
the MICE industry was highlighted as important; so were language accessibility;
how foreign delegates get welcomed into Russia and treated throughout their
stay; integration of modern event hosting technology and the need to appeal to
younger, yet lucrative, conference delegates whose needs and preferences in
conferencing style and incentive packages might be different from traditional
offers. Can South Africa remain competitively in the
game? South Africa, unlike Russia, is generally a lot
more open to the world and has been host to many prestigious international conferences
and other forms of business tourism for many years. On the whole, it has the skills
and the infrastructure throughout the country, especially in big cities like
Cape Town, Johannesburg and eThekwini (Durban), but also in other smaller ones,
including some truly impressive "bush" conference and event facilities,
as well as Incentives getaways within relatively reasonable drive from the main
centres. Our people are also known to be friendly towards
and welcoming to foreigners, even though this must still be fully extended towards
visitors from the rest of the African continent. The fact that we're an English-speaking
country, by and large, has also made us accessible to a bigger variety of
business visitors from around the world. But we shouldn't rest on our laurels. And here's the 'but' What South Africa seems to lack, increasingly, is
the appreciation of the crucial link between country reputation - informed by service
quality and attitude, leadership conduct in politics, business, and society,
safety perceptions, etc. – and success in attracting and retaining lucrative business
tourism. While we're always enthusiastic in sending delegations
of business leaders and spinners, all dubbed 'team South Africa', to accompany the
president to the World Communication Forum in Davos, Switzerland, to remind potential
investors that our country is open for business, too little is being done to reduce
the confusing mixed messages that get sent out about our country. The result of this is that the fancy, colourful,
country PR messages get defeated by misplaced utterances made by some powerful
politicians about the direction the country is being taken into. As a result, 'team
South Africa' spends much of its expensive time at the WEF, Davos, on the
backfoot, explaining things they shouldn't have to explain. We forget that in the current era of ubiquitous
digital media platforms, especially social media, investors and business travellers
are spoiled for choice, bombarded on a daily basis with a plethora of sweetened
country marketing messages on the one hand and, on the other hand, country
reports by diplomats, foreign media correspondents, and country representatives
of global corporations and organisations telling the truth about the unflattering
situations on the ground. No one has to come to South Africa for Meetings,
Incentives, Conferences, and Events; we have to sell ourselves in a highly
competitive world in which every country brand wants a piece of the lucrative pie.
Business travellers will not travel long haul for sympathy. They will do so
because the offer is irresistible, and the fundamentals are sound. So, we need to get our act together before
Yekaterinburg joins Kigali in taking food from our collective mouth.