For many small and medium enterprises (SMEs) the space that they work from can be one of their best marketing advantages, David Seinker, founder and CEO of The Business Exchange (TBE). In his view, most professional co-working facilities these days offer everything a business would need to promote what they do, from private meeting rooms and reception areas in which to host clients to technology such as high-speed fibre optics and the latest in video conferencing – all of which can make a lasting impression.  However, no matter from where you run your business, an effective online social media presence is critical, stresses Seinker. "This means having your business on every platform on which you may find clients, from LinkedIn and Facebook to Instagram, having a blog or even learning how to optimise your email correspondence for marketing purposes, or to create your own newsletter," he explains. It's also highly advisable for any company, no matter how small, to have a website to boost awareness and showcase its products or services. For him the key to any online presence is optimising it to drive more traffic your way, constantly updating its content and even recycling content effectively. Another primary consideration is to ensure that the website is technologically at its best - that it loads quickly and is highly responsive to visitors. It's also become very important to "show" what you do, rather than just "telling" your audience. Video content is key to this, and just about every smart phone these days gives you the opportunity to become your own camera operator, producing short, sharp content about who you are and what you do. And then posting your videos on platforms such as Snapchat, Instagram Stories, Instagram Live, Facebook Stories, Facebook Live and YouTube. For him another advantage of having your business in a co-working space, means they are usually populated by a community of like-minded businesses that can tap into each other. Opportunities that can be created in these spaces range from forming liaisons with other entrepreneurs that could help you to network or who may even be prepared to partner with you in events to promote each other. "We find that similar or complementary industries tend to cluster," notes Seinker. "For example, you might find an advertising agency sharing space with a social media content specialist or a video producer, while others could be involved in ICT, virtual reality or even public relations."