Travelling for business sounds glamorous, but it presents plenty of
challenges when it comes to maintaining your productivity in unfamiliar spaces
and across different time zones. Planning, scheduling and being firm with
yourself aren’t probably part of your regular travel agenda – but things are
different when it comes to making work while travelling a little less
stressful. Gear up Anyone who travels regularly for work has
their own set of tip A lightweight laptop and a smart bag to carry
it in, are non-negotiables. Nobody wants to lug a 17” behemoth laptop through
an airport with a bag strap that cuts into their neck. Think thin, light and
smart – there are plenty of laptop options out there that make life a breeze
for ‘working on the road’. Staying connected is vital and free WiFi hotspots
are often just too much of a security risk. A portable hotspot with a local
data SIM card can be a lifesaver – whether you’re on a conference call,
checking in for your next flight on the go or updating a presentation for your
team. You’ll be nowhere without battery power, so
make sure your laptop is charged and carry a power bank to keep your phone and
other digital devices online. And pick up a travel multi-plug while you’re at
it – there are few things more frustrating than finding an available power
outlet and then not being able to use it! Balance
work and play It’s great to be
able to carve out some time to explore your destination when you’re travelling
for work, but it’s important to remember that you’re not on holiday. Burning
the candle at both ends will mean you’re bound to drop a ball at some point, so
make life easy for yourself. Stick to your
schedule, make sure your accommodation or your working environment have touches
that make you feel at home and that you get enough sleep to allow you to both
stay on top of work and enjoy the benefits of being able to explore your
temporary destination. On a multi-city work trip? Try to plan your travel for
weekdays so you have some time to explore on the weekends. Travelling smart
also means having all the options at your fingertips to help you make quick
decisions and easy changes. KLM’s BlueBiz offers the rare
opportunity to earn both personal FlyingBlue miles on Air France, KLM and
partner airlines as well as points towards company travel. Free name changes,
guaranteed Economy Class seats on long-haul flights, access to online business
communities and priority ground and on-board perks are all part of the free
package that help make business travel that much more rewarding. Tame
time zones Operating
remotely in a different time zone only works against you if you haven’t planned
for it. You know in advance that there’ll be a difference between your online
hours and those of colleagues back home, so make sure you ‘plan smart’ to
schedule meetings and calls at a mutually-convenient time. If you’re
travelling somewhere where you’ll be ahead of your colleagues, start work early
and you’ll have a head start on your emails before they arrive at the office.
It’ll also give you more time during your day for meetings in your location –
or perhaps even a bit of exploring. Travelling to a vastly different time zone,
half a day ahead or behind? Work smart and you’ll have plenty of time to mix
work and play, where you are. You wouldn’t allow your schedule to become an
accident scene, so why do it when you’re travelling. Time zones apart, you also
have a different commute, possible travel delays if you’re heading to different
locations and also need to factor in check in / check out times and transfers.
While you can probably catch up on some mails in an Uber to the airport, you
don’t want to have to juggle a call while you’re checking out of your hotel or
standing in a queue to board a flight. Sticking to a regular work schedule (as far as
possible) will also help you maintain your productivity levels and give you a
fair chance to get some down time, too.