Backpacking through Europe or road-tripping across
the US may be fun when you’re young, but when the thought of shoving your
carry-on into a crowded overhead compartment or staying in a no-name motel makes
you want to reconsider your vacation altogether, you know it’s time for a
luxury trip. (That and when looking at your bank account inspires more pride
than dread.) But how to define "luxury" exactly? To Lindsey Epperly, founder and chief executive
officer of Epperly Travel, it’s a four- or five-star getaway that’s catered to
your personal preferences. "What people should look for is a major
difference in terms of service," she says. "Luxury is about
anticipating needs. It’s walking to the hotel bathroom realising you forgot
your toothpaste, and it’s already there." David Prior, founder of members-only travel club
Prior, adds that it can be a mix of high and low amenities. It’s more about
convenience (time is the ultimate luxury, after all) and personalisation. "It’s
not necessarily infinity pools or fancy cocktails. We’ve noticed people want to
splurge on a really special experience," he says. In the interest of helping you maximise your money
and take your next trip up a notch, we talked to more than a dozen travel
experts for the best ways to splurge (and save) on a luxury vacation. Set your intentions Almost every travel adviser we spoke with stressed
the importance of taking time before the trip to consider your goals for the
vacation. "When we work with clients, you don’t lead
with where they want to go, you lead with why they want to go there and what
they want to get out of it," says Todd Bliwise, founder of travel company
An Avenue Apart. Do you want to come back relaxed? Maybe a beach or
countryside locale would be best. Interested in adventure and experiences that
leave you exhausted? That calls for mountains or jungle or a busy city. Have no
idea where you want to go? Bliwise says the greatest gift you can give a travel
agent is telling them your budget, length of time off, and desired takeaways
from the trip—and let them work their magic. Take honeymoons, often travellers’ first
introductions to luxury. But even a big trip celebrating a career milestone or
a substantial raise is no less fraught as the internal logic is the same: "This
is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, I don’t want to penny-pinch, I want to really
go for it," says Bliwise. "When you approach your first luxury trip,
you should always lead with emotional variables." Setting your intentions clearly and specifically is
the best way to make sure the cost/value ratio of luxury traveling is in sync
with your values, and it will minimize disappointment on not seeing value in
your "investment" with the greater outlay of cash. If you’re new to
high-end travelling, learning that "luxury" is more of a feeling than
a price point takes some figuring out—and is different for everyone. Strategise like a financial adviser David Kolner, senior vice president at Virtuoso, a
network of top-shelf advisers, says to consider currency exchange rates when
planning your trip. Kolner also recommends strategising your long-term travel
bucket list like you would your financial plan, going so far as to map out how
much you can spend on trips in the next five or 10 years. While this sort of
advising is a growing niche for family travel, even those without kids can
benefit from advance planning. "People plan their retirement all the time,
but on travel, people literally just make it up every trip, every single time,"
he says. That kind of willy-nilly-ness is a sure-fire way to open yourself up
to disappointment and waste money. Think about seasonality Visiting destinations in shoulder season is common
travel advice, but at the luxury level, planning around the peak can
significantly boost your access to high-end amenities. Melissa Biggs Bradley, founder of Indagare .,
recommends St. Barts in July, for instance, calling it a hidden secret and the
perfect way to avoid the throngs of winter sun-seekers in December and January.
Our own data-crunching suggests you think a bit earlier even, May and June, to
get the best bang for your buck. It’s also worth considering what it is you
want—say, rugged Mediterranean or Atlantic coast—and transferring that desire
to an emerging destination. If you’re interested in the south of France and
Italy, try Croatia or Portugal instead. "Having a similar vacation on the
Mediterranean is much less expensive, and you’re not losing out in terms of the
quality of food or property," she says. One caution: If your bucket list includes places
such as Machu Picchu, there’s no cheaper time than the present (even if there
are worthy alternatives). As governments consider visitation limits due to
overtourism concerns, Bradley’s advice is to go now, before it’s too late. Consider a safari Almost every travel expert said that safaris were
especially popular for first-time luxury trips—and for good reason. It’s difficult to do a safari on a tight budget,
explains Jack Ezon, founder of Embark Beyond, a luxury lifestyle partnership
specialising in bespoke travel. "To do it right, it’s really expensive,
but it’s also very transformational." Bliwise likes to combine safaris with an island
destination or time in India and Nepal for a hiking experience. That’s
especially popular for couples who have split interests—one desires a relaxing
beach trip while the other wants adventure. For safaris in particular, cutting corners cedes
control on a ton of underlying variables, he says. Some travel companies shove
too many people into the safari vehicles, for instance, which can lead to a
miserable experience of straining over fellow passengers’ shoulders for three
hours. That dissatisfaction is magnified because even a "cheap"
safari is still a hefty proposition. Traveling to Africa also means you’re avoiding the
masses vacationing in Europe—the No. 1 place Bliwise says Americans should skip
for their first luxury trip. "I don’t say that out of disrespect, but it’s
incredibly accessible," he says. "You’re not going to go only once in
your life." Airport add-ons offer outsize results Splurging on an airport greeter that can welcome
you to your destination and help you through customs and immigration is a great
way to start your trip on a high note, says Anna Hawley, a custom travel
consultant at TCS World Travel. Ezon recommends airport VIP service Isroyal. "If
you have a flight connection, you can get picked up by a golf cart and driven
to your connecting flight. Those are small luxuries that cost $400 or $500 and
can make a huge difference." He also uses Luggage Free, a company that ships
luggage to your destination (and back home) so you don’t have to lug around a
heavy suitcase or worry about airlines losing your bags. Invest in a private guide... One big differentiating factor between a luxury
trip and a regular one is the ability to do things privately and on your own
schedule—no cramming into a tour bus with 50 other people. For instance, Hawley from TCS World Travel has
booked clients a shopping expert to take them through the markets in Marrakesh,
and in Rome she’s coordinating a Da Vinci Code-inspired scavenger hunt for kids
to explore the city. "The private guide aspect is obviously an added
expense, but it’s something that takes the level up," she says. "You
really get in-depth and get to know the culture, and you see some off-the-beaten-path
areas." This is also a way to make a hectic destination
less intimidating, says Elisabeth Nelson, a managing director at TCS. She recommends taking this approach in India where
heavy traffic and linguistic differences can overwhelm even an experienced traveller.
"You will still be in a crowded road, but with a private car and air
conditioning, it makes things much less scary," she says. … But save on a private driver While a private guide is useful in helping you
explore a new location, having a private car and driver throughout the entire
trip isn’t always worth the extra expense, says Kathy Sudeikis, who’s been a
travel adviser for almost 50 years (and yes, mom to actor Jason Sudeikis, too). Indagare’s Bradley agrees drivers are a simple area
to economise, if needed. Maybe that means booking a hotel in the middle of the
city or a beach villa that’s within walking distance of a nearby town. "We
have a lot of people who will choose one central destination, so they don’t
have to move around a lot," she says. If you really want a private driver, TCS’s Hawley
recommends booking one for the first day to introduce you to the new location.
After that, you may feel more comfortable taking public transportation or
walking the streets on your own. For lodging, splurge at the beach, save in the city If you’re visiting a beach destination where you’ll
spend the majority of your time in your resort, paying extra for luxury lodging
is a must, says Sarah Fazendin, an adviser at the family-focused Videre Travel.
Think of it like a cost-per-use rationale when buying clothing; you’re getting
much more for your money given the time utilided. She recommends booking a
villa in the Cayman Islands or Costa Rica, which are less crowded than other
beach destinations in the region and as a result may feel more "authentic." By the same logic, Ashley Diamond, travel adviser
for Ovation Travel Group, suggests spending less on hotel rooms in a city where
you’ll spend the majority of your time outside exploring. "It is entirely fine to stay in an entry-level
room at some of the finest hotels in the world, especially since you will have
access to all the amenities on the property," she says. "Not everyone
needs a lot of square footage." Prior recommends splitting the difference and
booking a fancy hotel for the first and last night of your trip—and economizing
on the rest. He says to think of these stays as "punctuation notes"
for your trip. You’ll appreciate everything all the more. "The French say luxury should be taken in
small does," says Prior, "and I kind of believe that, too."