I spent June in England, giving seminars at several
universities (and following the Proteas on their unfortunate campaign at the
Cricket World Cup). One question that kept being asked by peers, was on the
state of the South African economy. Why is President Cyril Ramaphosa moving so
slowly in tackling the crisis at the heart of the economy: Eskom? It’s a difficult question with a complicated answer, I would
respond. Eskom is in a deep mess, with debt spiralling out of control. It burns
cash. Plans to transform it into three entities is being hampered by trade
unions unwilling to see its members lose their jobs. It requires immensely
talented and brave leadership to find a negotiated solution that keeps the
lights on. Restructuring is essential, because the problems are
ultimately structural. Eskom is a state-owned electricity monopoly; the
Electricity Regulation Act 4 of 2006 makes Eskom the sole purchaser of
electricity in SA. Independent power producers are not allowed to sell to
consumers – like municipalities – independent of Eskom. The only way that
municipalities or large firms can escape Eskom’s reach is to produce their own
electricity. This arrangement made sense in the era before renewables. Large
power plants were needed – because of huge economies of scale – to produce
electricity that could then be distributed across the country and region. But new technology has fundamentally shifted this production
system. Production can be much closer to home. Solar panels and battery storage
allow me to produce enough electricity to power my own home. There are many
other technologies – hydro, wind, wave – that could be far more efficient and
compete effectively with the ‘old’ technologies. The International Energy
Agency predicts that by 2023 renewable energies will account for almost a third
of total world electricity generation. It’s not the technology that prevents these new industries
from emerging. Large investments in renewables, notably in China, have reduced
the costs of solar panels significantly in the last decade. The problem,
instead, is government legislation. Laws like Act 4 prevent upstarts from
competing with the incumbent, keeping the incumbent (and unproductive) firm
safe. SA has notoriously concentrated industries, from electricity
to banking, construction and telecommunications. While economies of scale may
have been the reason that these industries initially were concentrated, new
technologies now make such requirements obsolete. But while the technology may exist to improve efficiency,
government legislation, drafted for an earlier era’s needs, is often slow to
change with the times. Incumbent firms benefit from past legislation, but also actively
pursue new legislation to protect their privilege. This is not unique to SA. A new NBER Working Paper by New York University economists
Germán Gutiérrez and Thomas Philippon measures the entry and exit of firms
across US industries over the past 40 years, showing that the entry of new
firms (measured as the elasticity of new firms with respect to Tobin’s Q) has
declined significantly around the year 2000. The date is important, as this
decline did not happen in a cyclical downswing. This means that there are other
factors beyond the macroeconomy that explains this level decline. The authors
posit two reasons. First, perhaps better technology leads to higher returns to
scale, allowing big firms to make bigger profits and preventing smaller firms
from entering. Think of firms that rely on large networks, like Google, Apple
or Facebook. But the authors, when using firm level data, fail to find any
evidence of increases in returns to scale over the last 20 years. The second possible reason is government regulation. The
authors construct three tests to test this hypothesis. First, they compare
large versus small firms. Larger firms are more likely to influence lawmakers. “Consistent
with this prediction,” the authors note, “we find that regulations hurt small
firms and lead to declines in business dynamism (employment growth,
establishment creation, establishment growth) in small relative to large firms.” Second, they look at changes in the profitability of
incumbents when there are large regulatory changes. “Large changes are most
likely to motivate lobbying efforts. Until 2000. We find that large regulatory
changes were not correlated with changes in incumbents’ profits. After 2000,
however, we find that large regulatory changes are systematically followed by
significant increases in incumbents’ profits. Since regulatory complexity and
lobbying expenditures increased after 2000, this suggests that large firms may
be increasingly able to influence regulation to their benefit.” The third test measures the impact of lobbying explicitly. “We
know that lobbying is overwhelmingly done by large firms. Under the public
choice theory, we would expect lobbying to hurt small firms relative to large
ones, and indeed, this is what we find.” Testing the combined effect of regulation
and lobbying expenditures, they find that the confluence of lobbying and
regulation are particularly harmful to small firms. SA has high levels of concentration in almost all sectors,
but especially those where government is an active participant (think
electricity). It’s not a lack of new technological development that is holding
back these sectors, but rather the laws and rules, imposed in an earlier era or
by lobbyists hoping to protect their privileged position, that prevent new
entrants from competing.