The Messy
Middle: Finding Your Way Through the Hardest and Most Crucial Part of Any Bold
Venture, by Scott
Belsky This is the
story of author Belsky's company: Behance. "We
bootstrapped the business for five years before one of our products, the
Behance Network, eventually started to gain traction. This allowed us to raise
some funding from a top-tier venture capital firm, which gave us the chance to
build a dream team that turned our product into a ubiquitous global creative
platform. When Adobe turned Photoshop and the rest of their software into a
subscription service, they needed a network like ours. The timing and
opportunity was great, so Adobe acquired us. It was a great outcome for the
entire team, and we happily continued working together for years afterward." Pithy success
stories like this one are missing the really important part: the messy middle.
In this messy middle lie the dirty little secrets that entrepreneurs don't
admit. The line between their success and failure is wafer thin. They are
filled with self-doubt and insecurities. The bumps along the road are endured
in isolation. In the middle is a roller coaster of successes and failures. If you have
ever started a business or are starting one, the description of the messy
middle will resonate. Critical period Belsky's
focus is on what is in the middle mainly because there is so little written
about this critical period. It is a paradox because nothing headline-worthy happens
in the middle, yet everything important to your success or failure does. "When
everyone else around us perpetuates the myth of a straightforward progression
from start to finish, we come to expect that our journey is meant to look the
same." Theirs didn't, and neither will yours. This book is
not a literary equivalent of a 'pity party', rather it is a collection of illuminating
and essential realisations that will help you finish whatever it is you set out
to start. The content
of 'The Messy Middle' is a collection of ideas derived from over seven years of
gathering relevant experiences and insights, from many different people and
teams. Included were entrepreneurs of start-ups, entrepreneurs of billion-dollar
companies that have transformed their industries, as well as thinkers and
investors. It is organised around two themes – 'endurance' and 'optimisation'. Complementary forces These two
complementary forces "will help you conquer the middle of any bold project,"
Belsky promises. And I believe him. They will bolster your confidence and strengthen
your commitment to your plans. "The
middle makes and breaks you - and ending up on the right side of this line
depends on how you manage everything in between," says Belsky. "These
gems from the journey make you more capable for whatever comes next, and in my
own life, they have made all the difference." The messy
middle of this journey is all about "enduring the valleys and optimising
the peaks." This is important because your journey to success and wealth, always
starts with excitement and expectation. The reason is your blissful obliviousness
of what you don't know and of the painful obstacles ahead. Only by embracing
the middle will you find your way through, and this is where Belsky's book adds
value. It takes time "Realistically,
you will need to commit to suffering for years to push your idea to fruition. It
usually takes at least two years before you have any reasonable traction to
show that your business might be working, then another few years of driving
growth to create something that looks like a moat. Then you can afford to
breathe. A little," investor Doug Clinton is quoted as saying. After much
effort, it is not uncommon to realise that you are headed nowhere and need to
change everything. This means losing years of work and comes with the soul-crushing
feeling of having to start all over again. This was the
experience of YouTube, which was originally a dating site that never took off.
Ditto for Twitter which started as a podcasting network, and similarly never
took off. Leaders need
to be the stewards of perspective. The messy middle is like a long road trip
without windows. There is often no sense of progress or landmarks. As a leader,
you need to call out and describe the landmarks that you pass along the way. It
is for you to make the past relevant to the future, even when it is dry and
irrelevant. Your job is to be an energy-giver rather than a part of the energy-takers. The heavy moments Every journey
has heavy moments: Firing employees. Solving a PR crisis. Weathering legal
battles. Each time you struggle to push through the muck, know you cannot avoid
conflict or circumvent disappointing others. It must be done, and it must be
done by you. The author says he steels himself by saying "Scott, do your
****** job!" At your most difficult and trying moments, one often has to push
oneself to do the job – it is your job not anyone else's. The leaders Belsky
seems to admire most have invested a great deal of time in understanding their
own psychology and unpacking their past. Self-awareness
means understanding your own feelings well enough to recognise what bothers
you. Scott reports that when he is taken advantage of, he would opt to right that
wrong even if the economic cost of doing so exceeds the economic impact of
letting it go. Being conscious of your triggers helps you take your finger off
that trigger. Self-awareness
is also about preserving sound judgment and keeping relatable and realistic. The more
aware you are of yourself and your surroundings, the more data you have to
inform your decisions, the more competitive you will be. At most points in the 'middle'
you are probably many decisions away from success. But always one decision away
from failure. When times
are truly rough, we are often told that you should 'stick with it', but when
should you quit? Ask yourself
this question: Knowing all that I know now, would I pursue the project all over
again? Would I invest the money and energy all over again to get as far as I've
come in solving this problem? If the answer is 'yes!', don't quit. Simply
accept that life is a marathon, not a sprint Feeling
impatient with progress and deflated by process is just the way it is, so long
as you still have conviction. If, however,
the answer to the question above is: "Hell, no! If I could go back to the
day before I got into this mess, I would head in a totally different direction,"
then ask yourself why you are still trying. The book is a
collection of quality lessons each short enough to be read in 5-10 minutes. Readability       Light --+-- Serious Insights            High -+---
Low Practical           High -+--- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on
strategy and implementation and is the author of 'Strategy that Works' and 'The
Executive Update.' Views expressed are his own.