Days before the July 4 holiday in the US, hundreds of fans
of "Stranger Things" lined up along the beach in Santa Monica,
California, to attend a fair modelled after the Netflix show. Clad in shirts
with the names of characters and the high school in fictional Indiana, they
waited more than an hour to ride a Ferris wheel, eat ice cream and snap selfies
in a photo booth. The event, one of two in the US, is part of the biggest
marketing campaign ever undertaken by Netflix, the world’s largest paid online
TV network. Over the past few weeks, Netflix has attached "Stranger Things"
to Schwinn bikes, Nike shoes and Coke soft drinks - all to hype the
Independence Day arrival of the show’s third season. On Monday, Netflix began a long promotion with Microsoft.
The tech giant is bringing back Windows 1, the first version of the software
that made it the most valuable company. The app includes Microsoft Paint and
the word processor Write, as well as games and videos from "Stranger
Things." The show is set in 1985, the same year Windows 1 was released. Massive campaign Like any campaign, this one is designed to draw in current
fans and attract potential new ones. But it’s also an important test of whether
Netflix can turn "Stranger Things," already its most popular original
show in the US, into something much bigger. The company, with worldwide
subscribers approaching 160 million, is beginning to angle for a piece of the
$122bn consumers spend on entertainment-linked merchandise. "The category is massive, and Netflix wants to play a
part," said Gene Del Vecchio, a consultant and adjunct marketing professor
at the University of Southern California. "They are going to need a
strategic plan if they really want to reap the benefits as they go forward." Pillars of profit The world’s largest entertainment companies are built on
properties like "SpongeBob SquarePants," "Star Wars" and "Batman"
that remain in the public eye via T-shirts, games and toys long after people
stop watching the latest season. "Star Wars" has generated more than
$20bn in merchandise sales -- a virtuous cycle in which T-shirts and action
figures drive ticket sales for each new movie. For all of Netflix’s success, it has struggled to dispel
industry criticism that it churns through projects, never giving a show more
than a few weeks in the spotlight. The Los Gatos, California-based company
cancels the vast majority of new series after just a couple seasons because
viewership falls off. Sustaining interest is the key if Netflix wants its shows
to sell toys, clothing and video games. "Stranger Things" debuted over the July 4 weekend
in 2016 with little fanfare. A quirky piece of nostalgia for the 1980s, the
show was created by two brothers without a hit to their name and a cast full of
kids and journeyman actors. The creators were initially concerned because they
saw few billboards or traditional marketing materials. Magnet for viewers Viewers showed up right away. Within weeks, the cast was on
magazine covers and talk shows. The show was nominated for Emmy awards, and
was, by outside estimates, one of Netflix’s most-watched original series. "Whenever we do survey work, it’s the No. 1 show in
terms of customer favorites," said Michael Nathanson, an analyst with
MoffettNathanson LLC. "Stranger Things" proved Netflix could make a hit
on its own. Unlike "House of Cards," "Orange Is the New Black"
or "The Crown," the show was produced without the help of a major
studio. It is also the kind of hit media companies dream about. It appeals to
all ages, and lends itself to costumes and toys. But Netflix didn’t even have a
licensing department when that first season appeared. "Stranger Things" has since served as Netflix’s
marketing guinea pig. The company bought its first Super Bowl ad to promote
season two, and forged deals for "Stranger Things" T-shirts, dolls
and a mobile game. In September, Netflix hired Disney veteran Christie
Fleischer to lead its consumer products group. She, in turn, has beefed up the
group with additional hires from Disney. While Netflix has a huge head start on traditional media
companies in streaming, Disney is still the model for a modern entertainment
company. Every new TV show or movie at Disney is the start of a franchise that
makes money in a multitude of ways. Frozen Treats "Frozen" generated $531m in
toy sales in the US in 2014, according to research firm NPD Group Inc. "Star
Wars" is a video game, theme-park attraction and toy juggernaut. "Netflix stumbled into ‘Stranger Things’ merchandise,"
Del Vecchio said. It’s an open question whether Netflix can develop shows that
deliver those kinds of sales. Internet TV is still in its early days, and the
company debuts whole series all at once, making it harder to sustain the
attention of viewers the way a weekly program might. "The shows get big buzz and then start to fade,"
said Allen Bohbot, who produces the kids’ show "Super
Monsters" for Netflix. "With TV, the show is on every day and repeats
every week. There is a constant in-your-face reminder to a kid that a show will
be there." He can speak first hand. Netflix bought the underlying characters
from "Super Monsters" and licensed Hasbro Inc. to produce a line of
toys. The toys didn’t catch on in a big way, and a more ambitious release
schedule for the show didn’t seem to help. None of those concerns have stopped some of the world’s
largest companies from working with Netflix and "Stranger Things" to
reach new customers. "We’re always out looking for things we can do to drive
and build cultural relevance," said Eli Friedman, Microsoft’s general
manager of brand marketing. "There’s lots of buzz around the show." Tech Camp The promotion with Microsoft will last all summer. The
software giant will produce a video game rooted in "Stranger Things"
and offer science camps at its US stores all summer, named after the "Camp
Know Where" in the series. Technophiles will be able to take science and
engineering classes at more than 80 stores in the US, and learn how to make a
minigame tied to the series. Fleischer has been laying the groundwork for the "Stranger
Things" promotion for months, and, for the first time will roll out
products worldwide, including Latin America, Asia and Europe. The company is developing campaigns for "Dark Crystal,"
a series based on the Jim Henson characters, "Klaus," an animated
movie, and "La Casa de Papel," a Spanish heist show, according to
people familiar with the company’s plans who asked not to be identified. In
2020, a Finnish video game company will release a mobile game based on "Stranger
Things." Bohbot, who produces "Super Monsters," believes
Netflix will ultimately figure out how to turn its online hits into
merchandising bonanzas. "Nickelodeon was nothing until SpongeBob came along and
became a hit," Bohbot said.