Solidarity is embarking on what it has called a "lawful tax protest" campaign, which would include legal actions against state enterprises. Taxes and VAT form a big part of the fiscus and tax avoidance in South Africa is illegal. Talks of a tax revolt have surfaced in the recent past, but it was called irresponsible and highly unlikely by economists who spoke to Fin24. However, Solidarity chief operating officer Dirk Hermann, in a statement issued on Sunday, said that it is time "taxpayers turn to active and lawful tax protest". South Africa must discover the power of tax activism, he said. "We’ve already had a taste of it with the E-toll protest. Tax protest does not have to include the withholding of tax," Hermann said. "Taxpayers can unite across traditional barriers, making use of legal instruments to call the state and tax plunderers to account.” Solidarity said it will serve urgent court papers on Denel to force it to pay the unemployment insurance and tax contributions it had deducted from employees to where it is due. Solidarity said it also started a process in terms of section 165 of the Companies Act to have mismanagement and corruption perpetrated by former Denel directors investigated with a view to their possible prosecution. A similar section 165 process will be followed in collaboration with Sakeliga in respect of Eskom, which may have major implications for former Eskom directors such as Brian Molefe. It warned that similar applications against other directors at other state-owned enterprises may follow. Solidarity plans to mobilise thousands of taxpayers to get involved with the tax protest and to collect millions of rands through crowd funding. Hermann said taxpayers underestimate their power. "The state is not working with its own money, but with the money of taxpayers." He said it is not disloyal to utilise legal instruments for accountability. "In fact, it is loyal to taxpayers and ordinary South Africans, rich and poor, black and white who expects good infrastructure and services from the state, and who are entitled to it." More information about the campaign's activities, including an application to place SAA into business rescue will be revealed, said Solidarity.