It’s
unimaginable that, while many of us are still trying to crack half the secrets
of the little computers we carry around in our pockets that have fundamentally
redefined our lives, they are already yesterday’s news! Anyone
eavesdropping in on Davos – which we can now easily do thanks to our
smartphones – would have heard talk of exponential advancement in technologies
that are reshaping our global economic and financial landscape and impacting us
all on both a societal and individual level. As a
country, we are grappling with the right strategy that will prepare us for this
new world order, a master plan that must factor in global and local concerns
like climate change, rapid population growth and increased urbanisation. And as
always, our success will depend on our capacity to implement our strategic
plans. Nowhere are
these considerations more urgent than in our financial sector which underpins
and binds the economy together. Shored up by a sound regulatory and legal
framework, South Africa’s financial services sector punches above its weight
globally and shelters a gallery of domestic and international institutions that
provide a rich repository of personal, commercial, banking, insurance and
investment services that reach well beyond South Africa’s borders. What’s
more, it is an increasingly competitive sector with many institutions
demonstrating an ability to adapt to newer technologies to capitalise on new
opportunities and changing markets. Digital preparation It hardly
needs to be pointed out that this adaptation is going to be crucial. At a
recent Masterclass in Digital Transformation, hosted by the Centre for
Disruptive Technologies in partnership with the University of Cape Town
Graduate School of Business (UCT GSB), being digitally prepared was highlighted
as the number one challenge by senior leaders in the sector. In addition, they
highlighted the importance of taking cognisance of key pieces of legislation as
they develop their digital transformation strategies. Notable
among these is Principle 12 of the King IV Report on Corporate Governance,
which pertains to the responsible governance of information and technology
within an organisation. Whilst adherence to King IV is voluntary, failure to
act on some of the recommendations increases the risk of directors violating
their fiduciary responsibilities. There is the pending Cybercrime Bill, that builds on Chapter XIII of the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act,
2002. This Bill includes the codification and imposition of penalties on
cybercrimes, and demands more vigilance on the part of organisations in how
they protect those whose data they hold from cybercrimes. Legislation Allied to the
Cybercrime Bill is the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (or POPI),
which looks at the safeguarding of personal information held by public and
private bodies. And finally there’s the Financial Sector Regulation Act 9 of
2017, which has since April 2018, been incrementally rolled out and introduces
to South Africa what’s known as the Twin Peaks model, so called because of the
two peak regulatory authorities it creates; one to enforce prudential
regulations that would avert a potential financial crisis, and the other to
deter misconduct on the part of companies and to protect consumers of financial
products and services. Navigating
this legislative labyrinth will require, perhaps above all else, particular
leadership characteristics, which are inextricably linked to an organisation’s
internal capabilities and readiness to implement digital transformation
programmes. Leaders in the sector must take steps to equip themselves with the
skills to understand the landscape (legal and otherwise) and plot a path
through it, certainly, but also to be able to take others with them on the
journey. One of the
most substantial and systemic stumbling blocks is a company’s ability to
communicate its digital transformation strategy, and then to successfully
conceptualise, design, implement and evaluate this strategy. All too often, we
find that no one outside of the C-suite knows or understands the company’s
strategy, which bodes ill not just for that company, but also for clients and
the ecosystem in which that company operates. Beyond the
private sector, it is equally important that the financial service regulators
keep ahead of – or at least abreast of  – the digital transformation of
the sector, including the assortment of new products that fintech companies are
developing to cater to the ever-evolving needs of clients. How ready are we? This is all
easier said than done. There is some concern as to how ready we as a country
are for the changing technological landscape. This country readiness, in turn,
directly determines whether the regulatory environment enhances or impedes
progress. Having a good macro strategy is meaningless if private sector
companies are not on board. Change must start with leadership stepping up to
equip themselves with the right tools, while organisations, too, must commit
themselves to investing in skills and capabilities. Neither our
business leaders nor our workforce were prepared for the technological
advancements of the past two decades, but this must not be a harbinger of how
business leaders will respond in the future, or too many South Africans will
continue to find themselves on the wrong side of the digital divide. It would
be disastrous if we fell even further behind the rest of the world, and let go
to waste a wealth of opportunities to substantially change our country for the
better. Sharron
McPherson is Adjunct Senior Lecturer at the University of Cape Town Graduate
School of Business. A former Wall Street investment banker/attorney, she is
also the co-founder and a Director of the Centre for Disruptive Technologies.