One would have to be in heavy denial or,
metaphorically at least, living on a far-away planet – for example, the ‘Planet
Zuma’ that many believed had long drifted away – not to acknowledge that the
so-called New Dawn will never happen. If it does, it will not come in the form promised
to us in fancy political campaigns and government spin. Solutions to the
challenges we face cannot come from endlessly applying the same methods, and employing
– or deploying, if you will – the same so-called cadres over and over again. The
centre that deploys them has long run out of new ideas fit for a future-facing
South Africa. If the archaic, Soviet-era political
vocabulary still used 2019 is not a sufficient indicator of the incongruence
between the world we live in and this imaginary world, it is hard to imagine
what else will be needed to wake more South Africans up to the Orwellian world
we’re being forced to be part of. ‘New Dawn’ is increasingly beginning to seem
like the brightly coloured, delicious looking fast-food in fancifully photoshopped
brochures and fast-food-store overhead displays that rarely resemble what we
get after we place our orders. We, South Africans, were turned into
waiting people after the end of apartheid. For a long time, politicians in the
governing party have told us to be patient, to wait and to keep waiting for
processes to unfold in their own time and at their own pace in the ANC and, by
extension, in South Africa. Mind the order. Abuse of public funds From the early years of our democracy we were
told to wait because change takes time. But while we waited, the political elite
did not wait. Those chosen few went on to live off the public purse, splurging
on expensive, high-end sedans, SUVs, first and business class travel, newly built
and refurbished ministerial and parliamentary homes, unnecessary blue light
convoys, and a whole lot more. When the state capture president – now in
the limelight and regaling us with spy stories at the Zondo Commission of
Inquiry into State Capture – came along and raised the bar in the abuse of
position and public funds, we were again told to be patient. Calls emanating
from opposition benches to remove the institutional wrecking ball that he had
become were opposed by the party he led. This was not because such calls lacked
merit, but because they were initiated by men and women in opposition benches;
all of whom, may I remind you, represented citizens no less South African than
those who voted for the governing party, and who do not love South Africa any
less. So we were again told to be patient and to
keep waiting, even long before the December 2017 party elective conference, and
even while the man dubbed a Constitutional delinquent by the highest court in
our land continued to use the weakened and repurposed institutions of our
democracy against the best interests of our country. We were told to wait
because December 2017 would be the right time to start the process to bring a
semblance of order into the house. Funded by our labour So, we waited. We had no choice but to
wait. We had become the waiting people. And South Africa too, had become a waiting
country. All of this happened while the ANC took its time to get its own house
in order. We were held hostage then, as we are today, by the whims of men and
women in politics who have long ceased to place the best interests of our country
ahead of those of their party. Our future depends on their goodwill and
their material well-being is funded by our hard labour, as well as the taxes
and levies they have progressively imposed on us while they ask us to be
patient, to wait. We now work for their material well-being, not the other way around. It's unlikely any of us wanted to see
anything like an Arab spring come to our shores; so waiting was the only option
we were left with. And we waited. And while we waited, the madness continued. It
continued even amid what became a short-lived Ramaphoria. But if the only president we have for the
next five years doesn’t stop using a boardroom strategy while faced with
streetfighters who no longer have anything to lose; and if he doesn’t leave it
up to us to keep second-guessing him while his opponents – who have, by
default, become our collective opponents – continue to throw dirt at our
collective dream, something will have to give. The ANC will not heal while still in power;
and all indications are that a new, multi-racial, future-facing, centrist,
party will have to be born to lead the country into in a better shared and sure
future. South Africans and this country cannot be
held hostage forever by a governing party that long lost the ability and the
will to articulate economic and political policy in a clear, united voice. The
future can no longer be held hostage to the past. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation
management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy
DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.