South
Africa is currently stuck in a type of quicksand: not yet porous enough to
engulf the country completely, yet highly debilitating and extremely
threatening. The
National Democratic Revolution has placed the ANC and the South African state
in a deliberately symbiotic relationship. Therefore, the inherent weaknesses
and contradictions within the governing party simply parallel the decline and
depression within the current South Africa body-politic. You
would imagine that a new president elected just over two months ago with a 57%
majority would be in the driving seat. Instead, almost every attempt to move
out of the inherited decade-long mess that was the Zuma era is blocked. And it
would seem that those seeking to undermine President Cyril Ramaphosa are
increasingly emboldened without feeling any apparent fear. Events
in recent weeks have compounded the vice of stagnation that is now gripping the
new administration. Attempts to combat graft and corruption are going nowhere
slowly. The
Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture rolls on with constant
revelations and accusations of malfeasance, yet little tangible action seems
forthcoming. In eThekwini, attempts to hold Mayor Zandile Gumede to account are
exacerbating deep internal ANC divisions in a province already beset by
dangerous levels of political strife. And, of course, the Public Protector has
effectively placed her maximum bets on attempting to remove Public Enterprises
Minister Pravin Gordhan in what is a fast-developing critical showdown between
factions. All
these parallel issues are occurring as the economy continues to falter and
government bailouts to grossly mismanaged SOEs sap value and confidence from
the pockets of direct-and-indirect taxpayers whilst simultaneously undermining
broader investor/business confidence. It
is therefore clear that the destabilisation of the domestic political process
by ANC factionalism/crony capitalism and rent-seeking blocks has equally
disabled economic policy-making. When
you are fighting to keep your arch-confidant Pravin Gordhan in his position,
it’s the political fight that will sap all your energy. And, the tense standoff
between Gordhan and the EFF this last week in parliament reflected just that. With
the intimidation of Gordhan both legally and more broadly in the political (and
Twitter) terrain, just surviving in public office is now the key imperative.
And, with Gordhan fighting for his political life, Finance Minister Tito
Mboweni is also under pressure from similar parties keen to out his more
maverick brand of economic corrective action. But
ultimately, until such a time as the Zondo Commission, together with the NPA
and the courts, conclude real cases against those who have pillaged the coffers
and confidence of the country, the internal ANC battles for power will continue
– and continue to drain the country of real corrective opportunities. Within
this context, the ailing economy limps along and will be more dependent on the
vagaries of global issues like the US/China trade war, global currency
movements and of course, US interest rates than any real domestic policy
initiatives. South
Africa is therefore increasingly just becoming a global football – kicked
around by international events without any real team strategy or cohesive
domestic game-plan. This is all bearable if the global economy remains stable,
but should there be any return to recessionary tendencies, the country will be
far from ready to defend itself against a global downturn. With
government finances simply too weak to offer any real domestic security and the
continued inability of the state to create jobs, the internal political impasse
within the ANC presents little opportunity to begin the work of corrective
action. When
the ANC is gnawing away at the Ramaphosa Presidency from within, it is
similarly removing the ability to build a consensus around growth-oriented
policies which largely require the support from the domestic and international
private sector. Put
more starkly, the energy required by the Ramaphosa-faction now just to remain
in the driving seat is sapping the ability of the collective ANC (and that of
the broader South Africa) to focus on the most critical issue of economic
growth and job creation. Extreme political power-plays are retarding
consensus-building in almost every sphere. Those
seeking to undermine the broader Ramaphosa Presidency have little concern for
the consequences since they see the protection of their own narrower interests
as paramount. Unlike
Zimbabwe or Venezuela, where the ruling elites represented the forces of
regression, at least the South African story has a broader cross-section of
forces in power. But, for President Ramaphosa, being in power doesn’t mean that
he has power. The
devastating array of internal political plays are cumulatively draining the
ability of Ramaphosa to govern effectively – and it seems as though the core
forces pitted against each other are in check – unable to score a knock-out
blow but equally unable to break free to move to a new strategy. For
an apparent reformer like Ramaphosa, it was always going to be tough and
dangerous. This is especially true given the hollowing out of key institutions
of the South African state and stabilising the damage of state capture
accordingly. The
real proxy wars over the future of Pravin Gordhan and Busisiwe Mkhwebane symbolically
represent different world-views and interest groups. Upsetting the rent-seekers
is a dangerous game and now and Ramaphosa stands tested on this. The
jury is still out whether he – and his supporters – can really assert their
authority. But here’s the rub – unless you can gain proper control of your own
political party, you will be stymied all the way on every other issue of
leadership and policy implementation. South
Africa is therefore witnessing a ‘slow-burn’ as the ANC’s inner soul looks
increasingly combustible. And that’s a challenge no party leader of any party
really wants to confront. But only its resolution will return South Africa to a
future of better prospects. 