European equities were little changed alongside US stock
futures on Thursday, as trading volumes slumped thanks to the American holiday.
Gold slipped but stayed above $1 400 and WTI futures fell. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was flat, with deal activity and
carmakers boosting the gauge while utilities weighed it down. Contracts on the
S&P 500 Index also drifted after Asia’s benchmark finished higher overall
thanks to gains in Japan and South Korea. Trading volumes were well below
average across the board, with US markets shut and investors counting down to
Friday’s American jobs report. Core European bonds climbed, with German 10-year yields
sliding below the European Central Bank’s deposit rate for the first time.
Treasuries aren’t trading thanks to Independence Day. The dollar edged lower as
President Donald Trump lobbed fresh accusations of currency manipulation at
China and the European Union, while the euro strengthened following three days
of declines. Thursday’s holiday in the US is giving many investors a
breather after a hectic few weeks in which bonds surged and stocks hit records
as they tracked every twist in the trade war, tried to second guess central
bankers and analyzed every data point. Next up, a US jobs report that will be
closely monitored for clues on the Federal Reserve’s next move. "Friday’s data is important to the extent that it will
calibrate expectations for what the Fed could deliver later this month,"
said Ned Rumpeltin, European head of FX strategy at Toronto-Dominion Bank in
London. "It is more about confirming the market’s current bias rather than
setting fresh expectations." On the currency-war front, Trump in a Twitter post Wednesday
said China and Europe are playing a "big currency manipulation game"
and "pumping money into their system" to compete with the US. He said
America should match their efforts "or continue being dummies" who
watch other countries manipulate currencies. Here are some key events coming up: Here are the main moves in markets: Stocks Futures on the S&P 500 Index increased less than 0.05%
as of 12:55 London time. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.1%. The Shanghai Composite Index decreased 0.3%. The MSCI Emerging Market Index advanced 0.3%. Currencies The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index decreased 0.1%. The euro gained 0.1% to $1.1289, the biggest climb in more
than a week. The British pound gained 0.1% to $1.2582. The onshore yuan jumped 0.1% to 6.872 per dollar. The Japanese yen increased less than 0.05% to 107.77 per
dollar. Bonds Germany’s 10-year yield declined two basis points to -0.40%. Japan’s 10-year yield dipped one basis point to -0.155%. Commodities West Texas Intermediate crude declined 0.6% to $57.02 a
barrel. Iron ore decreased 3.5% to $113.94 per metric ton, the first
retreat in more than a week and the biggest dip in more than 20 weeks. Gold dipped 0.3% to $1 414.62 an ounce.