This has
been the whack of a week for South Africa’s middle-class. Under the cosh, the
SA Revenue Service opened tax filing season with a bang and with a promise to
come after taxpayers like Julius Malema goes after Pravin Gordhan. In the same
week, electricity, waters and rates tariffs all went up, often in double
digits. South
Africa’s middle-class pays the majority of personal income taxes – just over
four million individual taxpayers contribute the majority to the fiscus, making
South Africa’s one of the most progressive tax systems in the world, but one
that is extraordinarily hard on its long-suffering middle-class. Why is
this? Because the failed state also means that the middle-classes pay their own
education, health and security bills, and increasingly their own water bills,
as boreholes become a more common feature with a creaking water supply. All those
private bills have gone up by much more than the official inflation rate in
2019, be that school fees, medical aid rates (across plans) and private
security monthly fees. Until
Eskom’s collapse under the pain of state capture, electricity costs were
relatively low but this week, all major metros (where the majority of people
live) put up electricity tariffs by between nine percent and 11%; rates
increases are lower but grew beyond inflation while water tariffs went up
substantially to pay for an infrastructure that is creaking. If the
investments in water infrastructure are not made now, South Africa could very
well face a scenario similar to load-shedding, where a localised water crisis
becomes generalised. Fin24 reported
that the petrol price cut will be almost immediately absorbed into paying off
higher utility and property rates bills. Corporate
taxes are lower than personal income taxes, and have been held deliberately so
for the past few years as a measure to stimulate investment and employment. Neither
of these two things is happening at a significant enough pace to make a dent in
the big economic picture, and so the middle-class is facing the highest burden
of taxes as well as significant administered and consumer price increases. Cracks showing For black
middle-class people, often without the buffer of inter-generational wealth or a
family network of support to fall back on, this can result in downward social
mobility with the addition of black tax. Black tax refers to the informal
transfers that happen from most black middle-class families to other parts of
the extended family, who may not yet have emerged into the middle stratum. The cracks
are already beginning to show: there is a movement out of private schools back
into the Model C (public schools with private support), but bigger than that
was a report in Business Times
last Sunday, which suggested more South Africans were using their credit cards
for necessities rather than for luxuries or entertainment. In all its
communication this week, SARS made ominous warning sounds directed not at
corporate taxpayers but at individual taxpayers – there were no warnings about
transfer pricing and other well-worn tax dodges that are common in the private
sector. Stealth taxes There are
also additional stealth taxes in the offing, like the carbon tax (a necessary
environmental measure, but a tax nonetheless) and forthcoming national health
insurance scheme, which will be akin to a health tax, because the state system
is so poor and over-burdened that you cannot yet see it becoming a general-use
public facility, like parts of Britain’s national health service and the
Scandinavian social systems. A healthy
South African society, directed toward social justice, would include a
middle-class that is three times its size to ensure that more state resources
go to poor South Africans in order to lift up the entire country. Present
policies are not geared at encouraging a middle-class, but instead push it into
downward class mobility – and risk mimicking the make-up of post-colonial
societies, where there is generally only a well-to-do elite and a massive
underclass.