Glencore plans to reduce the number of subsidiaries based in
so-called tax havens as the commodities giant seeks to improve transparency. Glencore has come under criticism in recent years for its
use of companies located in low-tax jurisdictions, with public officials and
pressure groups accusing the company of transferring profits out of countries
it operates in without paying appropriate levies to national governments. In a report on Monday, Glencore denied employing such
tactics, but said it's reviewing all entities located in tax-haven
jurisdictions. It's planning to consolidate or eliminate as many as possible,
or register for tax residence in other non-haven jurisdictions where the units
can't be shut down. It also published a group tax policy built around the
objective of being viewed as a "good corporate fiscal citizen." "We do from time to time make use of companies
incorporated in what would be termed tax neutral or tax haven jurisdictions,"
Glencore said in the report. "Where that occurs, it is always for a
specific purpose and the companies used can be referred to as special purpose
vehicles." Glencore is based in Baar, in the canton of Zug,
Switzerland, a jurisdiction known for its low personal and corporate tax rates. The company's overall payments to governments rose to $5.7bn
(about R80.6bn) in 2018, up from about $4.5bn (about R63.6bn)  in the prior year, it said in the report. Other significant disclosures included: $1.2bn (about R17bn) in payments to national oil companies
in countries participating in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
– a voluntary program aimed at rooting out corruption whose members include
Nigeria, Norway, Chad, Ghana and Cameroon. Glencore paid an additional $14.3bn (about R202bn) in
oil-related payments to governments of countries not participating in the EITI. That compares with $2.99bn (about R42bn) in EITI country oil
payments by rival oil trader Gunvor Group the same year. Payments for oil originating in South Sudan totaling $425.7m
(about R6bn), for 6.4 million barrels of oil. Total tax payments of $1.06bn (about R15bn) paid to the
Democratic Republic of Congo, up from $408m (about R5.8bn) in 2017. An adjusted effective tax rate of 30.9% across its global
operations.