Eskom chair Jabu Mabuza and UK health consultant Fatai
Sanusi have been appointed as the new independent non-executive directors of
MultiChoice, the board announced on Monday afternoon. In a statement issued on the Stock Exchange News Service
(SENS), the MultiChoice board said the appointments were effective from July 5,
2019. Mabuza, who who is currently chairing the Eskom board tasked with cleaning up the beleaguered power utility, recently retired as chair of Telkom SA. In addition to his position at the power provider, Mabuza was
recently appointed as chair of the board of Sun International. He was previously group CEO and later deputy chair of Tsogo
Sun Holdings, and headed up Business Unity South Africa. Fatai Sanusi is a senior consultant in the UK National
Health Service, where he has served for 19 years at West Hertfordshire NHS
Trust. His speciality, according to his online profile, is obstetrics and
gynaecology. He graduated from the University of Lagos in 1986. "He has accumulated years of experience in governance
and risk management at a senior management board level," MultiChoice said.
"He is active in education and training and has served as training
director of the department for several years." "The Board welcomes Jabu and Fatai to the Company and
looks forward to their contribution," the statement added. MultiChoice listed on the JSE earlier in 2019. Recently, news
broke that over 2 000 jobs were at risk in a restructuring process
affecting staff in its call centres and walk-in centres. Late in June, the
company held its first engagement with relevant stakeholders, involving representatives
from three unions and MultiChoice's own Work Place Forum. At the time, MultiChoice said it was committed to
considering the initial feedback received during Friday's meeting, with an
agreement to respond to the various employee representatives at the beginning
of July. At the end of Monday, MultiChoice [MCG] shares were changing
hands at R135.55 per share, 0.25% down on the day. At the time of listing,
shares were priced at R95.