Feedback
(and other dirty words): Why we fear it, how to fix it, by M. Tamra Chandler and Laura
Dowling Grealish There
are two skills most managers lack: running good meetings and giving effective
feedback. The second skill, feedback, is such a problem that one could be
lulled into believing that giving quality, effective feedback is an oxymoron. Feedback
is so often destructive that we are more likely to associate it with a weapon
rather than a tool. It is too often a judgement passed without context, rather
than an observation offered with understanding. It is used to fix people rather
than to help people. People
are (genuinely) our most important asset. Your business is limited to the level
of your people. Without meaningful feedback your people don't grow, and they will
never reach anywhere close to their potential. We
must get the most out of our people, and to do this we must help them grow. Belittling,
reprimanding, bullying, motivating, bribing, encouraging and regularly
evaluating, doesn't produce the results. Bruised, insulted, shamed and humiliated
people don't perform better, but neither do the encouraged, praised, or rewarded. So,
what is there to do? Authors Chandler and Grealish assert: Give quality
feedback. This
book is an explanation of both what that entails and how to do it. The authors
have no illusions as to how difficult it is to be superb at giving feedback and
how difficult it is to make people open to feedback. Given all these
challenges, they provide a method. "Our
best solutions", the authors explain, "focus on building organisational
strength for growth-oriented feedback." And this is best when it is not in
the traditional manager-to-subordinate framework, but on a human-to-human
basis, without regard for rank and title. It is about people and work, and
helping each other thrive. Traditional
annual reviews have generally failed to deliver better performance. They've
also done much to skew our perception of what real feedback is. The
definition of feedback provided by the authors is quite different to the common
definition and provides a most succinct guide. "Feedback
(noun): Clear and specific information that is sought or offered with the sole
intention of helping individuals or groups improve, grow, or advance." Clear and specific information Let
us unpack this definition: "clear and specific" The feedback needs to
be specific enough to make it meaningful, providing clear understanding and
inspiring action as appropriate. "You did great, Mate!" is not
feedback. What specifically was 'great' so that you can repeat that? Quality
feedback must either be asked for (the most effective kind,) or offered as a
conversation, not a lecture. The lecture version presumes that the person
lecturing has the correct perspective about the issue and all the facts. The
feedback that 'you spoke down to managers', when in fact you were asked to
speak to the new interns, was a misinterpretation of perspective and the facts.
A conversation would have clear that up quickly. (Walking out of the
meeting.) "Thabo, I felt you spoke down to the managers." "Nah, Vuyo. They had
asked me to address my comments to the interns." Focus on growth The "sole
intention" must be to "help individuals or groups improve, grow, or
advance". If the feedback ever fails the 'sniff test', it will be
rejected verbally or silently, and feedback will unlikely be sought from this
person again. The primary purpose of
feedback is to improve matters. When a behaviour, approach, action, attitude,
or other factor is getting in the way of doing things optimally, that is usually
a signal that some improvement feedback is necessary. The issue is not the
past, that has passed, it is the future -that is to be the focus of the
feedback. The
last part of the definition is to "grow" the recipient. All personal
growth is a never-ending journey, which as its purpose that we become a better
version of ourselves every day. To
achieve quality feedback often requires that it be given or requested in the
moment, in conversation, and in small bites. This makes it far more digestible
and effective. An overwhelming information dump is all too much to absorb. Focus on the positive Positive
feedback is most often more effective than negative feedback. Clearly, if you're
witnessing a colleague about to jump off the high dive into an empty pool, stop
them. Working with your colleagues, your managers, and your teams, how often
are the people around you that far off track? Rarely. Positive feedback tells
people to keep doing the good work, to do it even more frequently, do it better,
and hone their strengths and contribution. Positive
feedback is inspirational and provides the impetus to try harder. The
problems with our current view of feedback requires that we first build the
prerequisite condition – trust. It is the vital ingredient that makes feedback
work. Trust allows information to flow without friction. "To
build trust, we need a track record of engaging in feedback conversations that
help and don't hurt," the authors caution. We can't force anyone to trust
us, but we can be kind and thereby build an environment of safety. The
precursor of trust is human connection. Genuine connection drives trust, and
trust drives feedback, so fixing feedback must start with building human
connections. This in turn requires an investment of time and effort. Is
it worth the time and effort? Surprisingly, the most common complaint about
feedback is, "I don't get enough." Despite the mess we've made of it,
most of us want more feedback. More is more The
Institute for Corporate Performance and the Center for Effective Organisations
(CEO) published a joint study called "Performance Feedback Culture Drives
Business Impact." They found that the top driver of measurable improvement
was the adoption of a culture of work performance feedback. The
study
focused on listed US companies and found that the top third in
terms of feedback differed from the bottom third in significant ways. Their financial
results were double those of the bottom third, including net profit margin,
return on investment, return on assets, and return on equity. "If
you've been looking for the secret sauce to increase your effectiveness as a
leader, you can stop looking: it's feedback!" the authors assert. And that
is a very plausible assertion. Read the whole book - it is an easy to digest, practical
guide. Readability         Light
+---- Serious Insights              High --+-- Low Practical              High +----
Low Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and
implementation and is the author of 'Strategy that Works' and 'The Executive
Update.' Views expressed are his own.