Thinking of buying or selling your business? Karen
Dorfling, director of Businesses4Sale SA, talks about her business journey and
the lessons she has learnt as a business broker. What is
the market like for business brokering companies, and what is your competitive
edge? Businesses4Sale SA assists the business owner
in preparing the business for sale. A professionally prepared information
memorandum is a strong marketing tool in the sale of a business. We take extra
care and effort in preparing a true representation of the business, to reduce
the involvement of the business owner in the initial meetings with potential
buyers. We have a large database of serious, qualified
cash buyers. We often sell a business to a buyer on our database before it even
formally goes on the market. We focus on maintaining confidentiality throughout
the whole process. The market is highly competitive. That said,
we are one of the few brokerages that comply with the legal requirements to
operate as a business broker. All
our brokers hold a valid FFC (Fidelity Fund Certificate). What did
you do before you started Businesses4Sale? I started my career as a business broker 11
years ago and have been involved with LINK Business Broking for the past seven
years – the last three as co-shareholder in the LINK SA Master Franchise. Why did
you start your own brokering company in November last year? Link International (Pty) Ltd based in New
Zealand, who was the franchisor for LINK South Africa, decided to withdraw from
the South African market in 2018. Business brokering is my passion and since I
had the experience and knowledge, starting a new brand supported by an
excellent team of dedicated, loyal business brokers, looked more exciting than joining
another company. Where did
you get the funding to start your own business? On a daily basis, we, as business brokers, see
how the cost of financing can influence a business negatively. So I decided to
fund the business development myself, out of my savings. The first four months
were tough, as we needed to grow a strong sales base to match the well-established
buyer base we have built over the years. Establishing a new brand is hard work,
and it affected our sales during this period. How did
you grow your sales offering? When we started Businesses4Sale SA, we had a
database of both business owners looking to sell, and investors looking for
business opportunities. We used an industry-specific CRM (client relationship management
system) to help us manage this data and database. We had a new website designed,
and found both the sellers and buyers through our various extensive online
marketing platforms. Did you
ever feel like giving up? The thought crossed my mind once or twice, but
I had the support of a dedicated team and my family, and was determined to make
a success of the new business. How does
your business model work? Businesses4Sale SA earns a facilitation fee on
successful sales. I have a core team of independently operating business
brokers who work on a commission basis, one licensee in the Eastern Cape, and
we are looking to possibly expand licensing opportunities nationally. Licence
holders will be selected carefully to make sure we get the right people on
board. What were
some of the biggest challenges when starting the company? To come up with the right trade name. I was
looking for a name that would tell people exactly what we did when they saw the
name. Thereafter, the challenge was to get a good logo and proper corporate
brand designed. It was important for me to have a brand with a strong identity. Developing a strong website was another
challenge, as I needed a platform that would be representative of our services
and could grow with us. We worked closely with an excellent web developer and
SEO (search engine optimisation) specialist, whose expertise managed to get our
website top ranking within a few months. How did
your past experiences influence where you are today? I think everything I have done in my career
has helped to prepare me for where I am today. My psychology background has helped
me develop empathy with both business owners and buyers. Experience has taught
me to truly listen to people. Better understanding the needs of clients allows
me to negotiate better outcomes for all the parties involved. How has
the company grown since starting up? We have
more than 200 businesses for sale and a database of over 13 000 qualified
buyers. We were blessed with several successful transactions since starting
the business, with some more transactions lined up from September this year. What do typical
buyers in the current market look like? A large percentage of buyers are in search of
a better quality of life. They might want to relocate to the Western Cape and
Garden Route because of the perception that these regions have lower crime rates. We also have quite a few buyers who are looking for opportunities to return to
South Africa after spending time abroad. Then, of course, there are the ones
that are retrenched and who have to buy an income. Also, existing businesses
looking to expand business operations or diversify into other industries. We find that buyers mostly look at purchasing
a business within their financial means, in other words, they use the cash they
have available instead of financing to purchase a business. What are
some of the biggest mistakes buyers make when buying a business? Buyers don’t gather enough information about
the business. They end up with a poor picture of what they are getting
themselves into. A restaurant business, for example, might be bought lock stock
and barrel, but without a stipulated inventory the buyer might find the stock
to be nothing more than two cans of coke. Other mistakes include buying into a business
or industry they know nothing about and not checking the figures properly. One
of our prerequisites is that a buyer should do a due diligence before purchasing
a business. The previous business owner also has to spend at least a month with
the new owner to ensure a smooth transition. Who are
your typical sellers? People usually sell when they want to retire –
and these businesses are always in high demand because they usually have a good
track record. Other sellers might be looking for a career or lifestyle change. Many restaurant owners, for example, get tired of the long hours. There has
also been an increase in the number of owners who are selling because they want
to emigrate. What should
sellers be aware of when putting their business onto the market? Small business owners often keep poor business
and financial records, making it difficult to value the business. They may also
lack formal systems and do not keep a record of or declare all income. It is important that buyers can verify all
financial information. Besides this, sellers often place an emotional
value on their business, which is not in sync with market expectations. How do you
value a business? Prescribed models exist for determining the
value of supermarkets and filling stations, but with other industries, we take several
factors into account. These include the asset value, how long the business has
been operating, the risk profile of the business and industry, the location and,
of course, the net profit. What are the
important challenges that entrepreneurs currently experience? Labour-related issues are probably the biggest
challenge for most business owners. Another issue is funding for entrepreneurs. Application processes and red tape need to be addressed to make funds more
accessible. Some
people say it is better to start your own business than buy a business. What do
you think? I think there is room for both, and it generally
depends on the entrepreneur. Starting
a new business can be much more expensive and riskier than buying into a
business that is already generating an income and has an existing client base. You also know that the location of the business is working, which is a large
gamble when you start something from scratch. Do you
have a business role model? Richard Branson, because of his tenacity. His
life is such an example of going out to get what you want, even when it looks
as if the odds are against you. What are
your plans for the future? Growing
our footprint nationally and internationally. We would like to continue working
in association with LINK International Business Broking to ensure we can give
our sellers maximum exposure to the buyers’ market. We would also like to grow
our team of professional brokers with a specific focus on the Western Cape over
the next 12 months. This article originally appeared in the 25 July edition of finweek. Buy and download the magazine here or subscribe to our newsletter here.