Oil snapped four days of losses after an American warship
downed an Iranian drone near the Strait of Hormuz, stoking concerns crude flows
from the Middle East may be disrupted. Futures rose as much as 1.9% in New York, paring its
steepest weekly decline since the end of May. The US "immediately
destroyed" the drone that approached the USS Boxer, President Donald Trump
said on Thursday at the White House. Iran could close the Strait of Hormuz but
doesn't want to do it because the waterway and the Persian Gulf are its
lifeline, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said in an interview Wednesday. Oil is still down about 7% this week as concerns about
global demand eclipse fears about a cut to Middle East crude flows. Trump on
Tuesday reiterated that he could impose additional tariffs on Beijing, while
China's economic growth slowed to the weakest pace in almost three decades in
the second quarter and American fuel stockpiles unexpectedly expanded. "The fresh reminder of tensions in the Middle East is
propping crude back up," said Vandana Hari, founder of Vanda Insights in
Singapore. "I expect prices to recover only a fraction. The bearish grip
on the market is too strong." West Texas Intermediate for August delivery increased 55
cents, or 0.8%, to $55.75 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of 07:41
in London after gaining as much as $1.06 earlier. The contract lost $1.48 to
$55.30 on Thursday, the lowest close since June 19. Brent for September settlement rose 81 cents to $62.74 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange. It fell 2.7% to $61.93 on Thursday
and is also set for the biggest weekly loss since the end of May. The global
benchmark crude traded at a premium of $6.84 to WTI for the same month. The Iranian drone was a threat to the ship and its crew,
Trump said, as he called on other nations to protect their vessels as they go
through the Strait. The confrontation comes as tensions between Washington and
Tehran remain high over a spate of attacks on cargo ships, the downing of an
American drone and the British seizure of a tanker carrying Iranian oil. Trump last week complained that China wasn’t living up to
its promise of increased purchases of American agricultural goods.
Disagreements on key initial demands from Trump and his counterpart Xi Jinping
is raising doubts about whether the two nations will actually return to the
negotiating table.