Social media recruiting could help businesses to handle economic challenges in various ways. This is according to Global Refer Social Recruitment. The company provides 5 reasons why it feels social media recruiting is a good idea. These are: Find higher quality candidates with the right skills Hiring traditionally, using job boards often results in getting a pool of applications that vary greatly in the match between your position and candidates' skills and experience. "In an uncertain global business climate, you need to know new placements will have the necessary skills to add value from the start," according to Global Refer. "That they won't simply apply for fear of not having employment, but will rather provide good fit." It regards cocial media hiring as effective because you can reach candidates who have the skills and backgrounds most relevant to your vacancy, including professionals who may not be actively seeking new opportunities but would nonetheless be interested. Avoid the cost expensive hiring processes Traditional hiring is one accumulative expense that is easy to reduce, in the view of Global Refer. "Social recruitment cuts out third party hiring expenses, as you can create social ads fast and share them in your extended social media network," it claims. Secure the strongest talent while the job pool is smaller During an economic downturn, there are fewer job vacancies and thus more applicants while companies are hiring conservatively, Global Refer points out. It suggests setting clear criteria for ideal employees to ensure you find the best fit. Use targeted referrals to hire pre-vetted staff Using a social recruiting platform, you can set referral rewards for successful placement. This gives your immediate professional and social circle a strong incentive to assist you in finding the ideal person to fill key company positions, according to Global Refer. Convey the strength of your employer brand "During an economic downturn, competitors may be forced to make very public layoffs that damage their brands as employers. Candidates are looking for secure, stable work environments," says Global Refer. "Using social hiring ads, you can show trust-building aspects of company culture, telling potential applicants the story of how your business has grown and will continue to with the aid of their sought-after skills."