Equities slumped globally and Treasuries rallied after
President Donald Trump’s threat to increase tariffs on Chinese imports called
into question the chances of a resolution to the trade war. The S&P 500 index tumbled at the start of regular
trading in New York, signaling a potentially punishing week on Wall Street
after Trump tweeted a plan to hike tariffs this coming Friday. From JD.com and
Skyworks to Apple and Caterpillar, tech companies with China exposure and
machinery companies – which are seen as proxies for the trade war – were among
the biggest decliners in early trading. The VIX gauge of stock volatility
headed for its biggest increase this year. "The key question for investors is whether this is
simply aggressive posturing in the hopes of securing greater concessions or
something that could truly scuttle any brewing trade deal," said Alec
Young, managing director of global markets research for FTSE Russell. "Stocks
have largely discounted a trade agreement, and therefore a total breakdown in
talks could fuel much greater equity volatility." Commodities were roiled. Cotton and corn futures slumped,
while soybean contracts headed toward their largest drop in about nine months.
West Texas Intermediate oil futures declined as much as 3.1% before erasing
most of the drop as Saudi Arabia cut June pricing for all crude grades to the US,
a move that appeared to be aimed at easing concern over supplies. As some investors sought safer assets the yield on benchmark
Treasuries fell the most in almost two weeks. European government bonds and the
euro held steady as economic activity in the euro area showed signs of stabilisation. Equities in the region slid, tracking a sell-off across much
of Asia. Shanghai’s benchmark index tumbled 5.6%, even after Chinese
state-backed funds were said to have been active in an effort to limit the
damage. Seeking to ramp up pressure on China for more concessions,
Trump threatened in two tweets to more than double tariffs on $200bn of Chinese
goods and impose a fresh round of duties on top of that. Talks to resolve the
year-long trade standoff appeared to be on life-support Monday, with Beijing
struggling to fully respond. China’s foreign ministry said that officials were still
planning to travel to the US for the next round of negotiations, but it was
unable to confirm when amid signs that a delay is now being considered. "Escalation like this means we are certainly further
away from the end of this negotiation process than we thought," said
Arthur Hogan, chief market strategist at National Securities Corporation. "The three things that have been driving this market
higher this year have been the pivot by the Fed, better than feared earnings,
and the belief that we would get a trade deal done sooner rather than later." Adding to a complex global picture, North Korea carried out
a weapons test that potentially included its first ballistic missile launch
since 2017, challenging Trump’s bottom line in nuclear talks. Elsewhere, Turkey’s lira weakened past six per US dollar,
touching its lowest level in almost seven months as a possible repeat of the
March Istanbul mayor’s election hung over the market and added more pressure to
emerging-market currencies. Here are some notable events coming up: Chinese Vice Premier Liu He is scheduled to return to
Washington for trade talks on Wednesday, though the schedule may now be in
flux. The Reserve Bank of Australia meets to set interest rates Tuesday, while
New Zealand central bank does the same the following day. China releases trade data Wednesday, and the US does so on
Thursday. South Africa holds national elections Wednesday. China reports on
inflation Thursday. The US releases the April CPI report Friday. These are the main moves in markets: Stocks The S&P 500 Index fell 1.5% as of 09:32 New York time,
while the Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 1.9% and the Dow Jones Industrial
Average slumped 1.6%. The Stoxx Europe 600 fell 1.4%. The MSCI Emerging Market
Index dropped 1.9%. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 1.1%. Currencies The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index gained 0.3%. The euro was
little changed at $1.1195 while the yen strengthened 0.2% to 110.87 per dollar.
The British pound weakened 0.6% to $1.3097. The MSCI Emerging Markets Currency
Index eased 0.3%. Bonds The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell four basis points to
2.49%. Germany’s 10-year yield fell one basis point to 0.01%. Commodities West Texas Intermediate fell 0.9% to $61.41 a barrel. Gold
was little changed at $1 278 an ounce. The Bloomberg Commodity Index fell 0.9%.