South Africa needs an effective, proactive
and permanent health monitoring mechanism for its country brand and image. Country brand monitoring would mean SA is not left on the backfoot, having to explain itself, when it should be focusing on developing an inclusive economy. It is necessary given everything that
has occurred over the past 25 years – specifically in recent years – to propel
its originally promising and, at one point sterling, country brand image into a
tailspin. And it is particularly important because our
leaders and political hopefuls have a strange propensity to threaten or make
economic and political policy decisions seemingly on emotion, which seems at
odds with the ideals of a country that wants to be seen as a serious player, a
nation influencer on the world stage. There are things that more established
brands – including country brands – easily get away with, which new democracies
trying to punch above their weight can't. That explains why a country like the
United States of America can choose a president like the one it currently has,
who does and says many of the seemingly strange things he's known for, yet none
of it seems to discourage global business from wanting a piece of the American
pie. Despite its failures and, often,
antagonistic foreign policy stances on multilateral issues around the world,
the USA is known for boasting strong and independent institutions of democracy
and a long-established political culture of democratic alternation. It is
therefore known and accepted worldwide that no US president can ever stay for
more than two terms in office. Similarly, people often complain about
tourism being affected and almost trickling to a stop whenever natural
disasters and other, major negative events – including terrorist attacks –
happen in developing countries; while the same does not occur when such events
visit established democracies. This is not unlike established brands
being able to rely on massive reputational capital gathered over decades to
make their way through storms with a lot more ease than new brands still trying
to establish themselves. A long way to go South Africa is still a young democracy,
with institutions whose resilience in the face of political madness has yet to
be proven. Save for the office of the Public Protector under the stewardship of
Professor Thuli Madonsela – since sadly gone – and our judiciary over the past
ten years, not nine, our institutions have not done us much favour. As a result, much of the world, including
some home-based investors – whether or not they will says so publicly – is waiting
to see what the 2019 elections will bring before making long-term decisions. It is hoped that the mixed messages we
have been sending out, ranging from threats of land and property expropriation
without compensation, will be replaced by clear political and economic policy
stances that will enable healthy levels of stability, sanity and – crucially –
predictability. Reputational impact monitoring The proposal for a brand or image monitoring
mechanism should not come as a surprise to SA, because there already exists in
the country a platform that brings government, labour and business to think
about policy proposals before they are implemented – namely the National
Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac). The proposed mechanism would serve as a
platform to facilitate regular multi-forum discussions on the possible impact
of proposed policy directions on country image and how - following dedicated scenario
planning - to mitigate potentially negative ramifications and avoid the country
being left at a disadvantage, having to explain its decisions, when its focus should be on inclusive development. Such a platform would also ensure the
crucial link between country image and reputation, on one hand and – on the
other hand – economic development and dynamism, is understood, appreciated and
nurtured by more South Africans. This includes labour unions, who sometimes
appear to be concerned particularly with one side of the economic bread – which
is buttered – but forget that everything is linked. How to do it In order for the task of rebuilding our
country's reputation to be accomplished as well as it should be, government,
business and labour must first reach a shared level of appreciation of the
damage that has been done, then come up with a medium-to-long term reputation
recovery plan. This plan must be properly resourced and
handed to a multi-disciplinary team of experts, most of whom must be
independent of undue political influence, to implement. Furthermore, this team must enjoy a 360-degree
view of South Africa, the country brand, inside and outside, if it is to
accomplish a relatively seamless, wall-to-wall implementation of the agreed plan
and ensure that no reputationally damaged part of the country brand is left to
fester and risk bringing down the entire edifice, downstream. The country brand reputation/image health
mechanism should, over time, be an obligatory stop for any policy proposal to
be analysed before it goes for signing by the head of state. Recommendations to
go ahead with such policy proposals must be accompanied by properly thought-out,
scenario-planned strategy on what could possibly go wrong, in terms of socio-economic
and market/investor reaction once signed, and measures to be put in place to
limit a negative impact on the country’s reputation, goodwill, and investor
appeal. South Africa is increasingly in
competition with countries that take reputation seriously, in the region and
across the world. It should never again have to find itself on the defensive
because of bad leadership and bad planning. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and
CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation
Managers. Views expressed are his own.