President Cyril Ramaphosa announced his Cabinet on Wednesday evening. In an address to the nation from the Union Buildings in Tshwane, Ramaphosa outlined the structure of his national executive. Here's how the ministries that fall under the economic cluster have changed. This ministry is being retained and Pravin Gordhan has been reappointed as minister. This will allow him to continue to make his presence felt in the reformation of South Africa's parastatals. Phumulo Masualle has been appointed deputy minister. Tito Mboweni will remain minister of finance. With the run-up to the announcement, Mboweni was expected to retain the position. Bloomberg previously reported that the former central bank governor, who was appointed to his post seven months ago, was considered to be best positioned to ensure the country continued to deal with its debt burden and to maintain market stability. Dr David Masondo will be deputy minister. The department of trade and industry has been merged with the economic development department. Ebrahim Patel will be the minister. He will have two deputy ministers - Fikile Majola and Nomalungelo Gina. Energy and Mineral Resources The ministries of mineral resources and energy will be merged, Gwede Mantashe will lead the ministry and Bavelile Hlongwa will be deputy minister. One of former Energy Minister Jeff Radebe's last acts as energy minister in the fifth administration was writing to the National Energy Regulator and granting them permission to consider licensing small-scale embedded energy projects of more than 1MW each. The labour department will be expanded to include employment, the president said. "This is to demonstrate the country is on a journey to create jobs. So the ministry will be called the ministry of employment and labour," Ramaphosa said. Mildred Oliphant had a long run as labour minister, serving in the position from November 2010. By the end of the fifth administration the National Minimum Wage was signed into law. Thulas Nxesi will now lead the department. Boitumelo Moloi will be his deputy. The ministry will continue to exist and Khumbudzo Ntshavheni will take over the reins from Lindiwe Zulu as minister. Rosemary Capa will be deputy minister.