Minimum wage legislation,
introduced on January 1, was supposed to herald the first pale rays of a
promised new dawn. This promise would be consolidated once the ANC again
held the reins of national power, with Cyril Matamela Ramaphosa in the top job. However, it was obvious from
the first announcement last year about the minimum wage levels that they
probably signalled storm clouds rather than any pale rays of a new dawn. 
This despite the fact that the pay deal was concluded with the agreement of three
trade union federations. Over the past week and
more, with the commentariat focusing on the delay by the newly sworn-in
president to marshal his ministerial team, the first, largely unreported,
challenge to the minimum wage arrived. That it came in the agricultural
sector is hardly surprising. Equally unsurprising was
the fact that Zwelinzima Vavi, general secretary of the SA Federation of Trade
Unions (Saftu) was at the forefront in supporting this challenge, a strike at
the historic Oak Valley estate near the town of Grabouw in the Western Cape.
The strike was launched by members one of the smaller affiliates of Saftu, a
federation founded in April 2017 when the minimum wage debate was officially
well underway. The debate was conducted in
the clumsily titled tripartite negotiating forum, the National Development,
Labour and Economic Council (Nedlac) from which Saftu is still excluded. 
Cosatu, Fedusa (Federation of Unions) and Nactu (National Council of Trade
Unions) together with representatives of government and business, agreed, after
years of haggling, to R20 an hour or, in round terms, R3 500 a month. But there were also
exceptions to this rule, among them farm workers, where the hourly rate was set
at R18, while the agreed rate for domestic workers was R15 an hour. Exemptions also apply: companies making less than 6% of profit, need not pay
the minimum. Undermined As some trade unions —
often belatedly — realised, this effectively undermined the whole project,
especially in a country where the wage and welfare gap is probably the biggest
in the world. It all comes down to how a company organises its pay
structure and how it “cooks” the books. Domestic workers in
metropolitan areas, who usually have long and costly distances to travel to and
from work, also seem to have been short-changed, their minimum hourly rate
dropping by 28 cents. Domestic workers in rural towns, who can mostly
walk to work, received an increase of R1.69 an hour. Given the usually solitary
work situation of the predominantly female domestic workforce, it is extremely
difficult, if not impossible, to organise collective protests, especially at a
time of great joblessness. A similar situation seemed, historically, to
apply to farm workers, many of them employed on a seasonal basis. But that changed in late
2012 when, initially in the De Doorns area of the Western Cape, widespread
protests about wages and conditions erupted on the farms. The minimum
farmworker wage was — and remains — set by ministerial determination, and was then
R69 a day. In the wake of the
protests, a new ministerial determination of R105 a day was set. Under the
latest dispensation, the minimum wage for an eight-hour day is R144. However, many farm workers complain that it is not unusual for farmers to recoup
at least part of this wage increase by charging for electricity, water and
other services for workers resident on farms. A storm coming However, many — mostly
seasonal — workers do not live on the farms, but in the growing sprawl of
informal settlements in the major agricultural areas. The demand that has
now emerged in Grabouw is for R250 a day, or between R5 000 and R6 000 a month. This action in the lush
Elgin valley may signal the as yet distant rumbling of a coming storm. But it has also highlighted wider problems facing organised labour, including
the right — enshrined in legislation — of employers to hire “replacement labour”. When this provision was
included in the Labour Relations Act, a minority of union activists maintained
that it turned the LRA into a “scab charter”. This issue is again being
raised, along with the new picketing rules that are likely to cause considerable
tension at times of labour disputes. Strikes 'ineffective' Says Vavi: “The CCMA
(Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration) has imposed a rule
that the workers can picket, but they must be about 1.2 km away from the
company gate. This renders the strike utterly ineffective.” However, it is not only to
the labour front that the purveyors of a promised new dawn should pay close heed. And here Grabouw also provides an excellent
example. It comes in one of the new
six-part Story of a Small Town series of documentary films that deals with
Grabouw. One of the clearest messages coming from interviewed farm
workers is that they and their children see no future in farming. Given the history of
exploitation and the conditions in which generations of farm workers have had
to live, this is understandable. But it is also deeply worrying and
another indication that the small signs of a new dawn may merely be the very
distant lightening flashes of an impending and damaging storm.