Phumulo Masualle, former
Premier of the Eastern Cape, pencilled an essay in 2017 calling for
the revitalisation of rural, small towns. In
short, he argued that the demise of South Africa’s rural small towns stems from
the lack of economic opportunities and declining quality, owing to poor
infrastructure and a lack of new private investment – in turn partially
constrained by a reluctance to transfer excess public land and tenure issues,
among other factors. I thought
of Masualle’s essay yesterday after a
short visit to Cradock in the Eastern Cape
for a farmers’ meeting. Thank goodness the town doesn’t precisely fit
Masualle’s description of the situation in other small rural towns. The
only factor that differentiates Cradock from some small rural towns is its vibrant
wool, beef, dairy, fruit, lucerne, and mohair industries. The commerce and
services that occur in the city centre are one way or another linked to the
health of the agricultural businesses, which in the recent past have not been
smooth sailing. From climate change to land reform Drawing
from conversations with farmers in the region, these are among the factors that
keep some farmers up at night: climate change, biosecurity, water regulations
and – last but not least – land reform. Fortunately,
most of these matters are within the regulators' or government’s control – and
I hope the above-mentioned parties will continue to have close cooperation with
organised agriculture groups while pursuing the necessary transformation objectives. All-important land and water As I
noted in my previous writings, my hope is that President Cyril Ramaphosa’s new
administration will articulate a clear and lasting policy framework on land
reform and water rights. This
will not only encourage investment, but also bring restorative justice. It
would further ensure that underutilised land in the former homelands – as well
as some land-reform farms – would be brought into full production to boost
growth and jobs. This
would be a step in the right direction; that is, towards revitalising small,
rural towns. More independence But
it would also be crucial in the process to focus on beneficiation of some of
the agricultural products, particularly in the former homelands' small towns,
where the only economic activity seems to be retail, on the back of remittances
and government social support finances. So,
to former Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle’s proposition of revitalising
rural small towns, I would present the following. It
should start with the revitalisation of agriculture, and in the process, enticing
agribusinesses to expand operations to such towns. Then, it should focus on
beneficiation. This could provide much-needed jobs and keep small towns alive. Wandile Sihlobo is a South African agricultural
economist. He is on Twitter: @WandileSihlobo