Reading this, you may be standing in the
queue waiting to cast your vote; or you may already have done so, and are now
waiting for the results. I'm assuming, of course, that few regular
Fin24 readers would opt not to cast their vote. This is, after all, the most
important national election after the one that helped us bid apartheid goodbye
in 1994. It will tell us the extent to which the South African electorate has
matured from being emotional voters to rational ones who take the necessary
time to look at the facts and connect the dots. Going by the outcome of the 2016 municipal
elections and many of the calls to radio talk-shows and conversations on social
media, change is already happening, at least in the way South Africans view
politicians and political parties. Increased numbers of people, especially
Blacks (in the broad sense), openly declare their intention to vote for the DA –
a party many  still prefer not to be seen
in the company of during the day – or to have voted for it. Increasing numbers of others openly
discuss their disgust at the extent of the rot that has been exposed in recent
years, and that continues to be expressed, in the party of their hearts, ANC. But,
of course, expression of disgust and disappointment does not necessarily
indicate which way people vote; even though it forms part of the changed and
changing public sentiment that no observer should ignore. What the polls say Several polls have predicted that the ANC
will win the national vote with a slightly reduced majority, leaving it
somewhere between 50% and 57% of national voter support. I think a score below 50% shouldn’t come
as a shock. If it did, it would be good for the ANC and it would be good for
South Africa. It would be good for the ANC because there is very little chance
of this party self-correcting, despite many repeating this claim ad nauseam. Those
who make the claim will point to the laudable senior departures from various state-owned
entities that have been triggered by the courts or adverse outcomes of
inquiries such the Nugent Commission of Inquiry into the South African Revenue
Service, the Mpati Commission of Inquiry into the Public Investment Corporation,
and the Mokgoro inquiry report on the former Deputy NDPP, Nomgcobo Jiba and her
colleague, Laurence Mrwebi. President Cyril Ramaphosa only administered the coup
de grâce after the adverse outcomes were made. He followed the right procedures in these
cases, of course. He did not have to be the one using his discretion to fire
them before the courts did, as that would have led to more long-drawn and
expensive legal processes South Africans are already tired of. A new, more decisive Ramaphosa? Where it gets worrisome is in the many
cases that have remained glaring for more than a year since he took over from
the one-I-shall-no-longer-mention-here, where it concerned problematic, even
criminal, ministers who have been serving at his pleasure. With these cases, the
president lost an opportunity to demonstrate that he did not need the courts of
commissions of inquiry to decide what is tolerable conduct in public office and
what is not, and that he could not work with people who should have been processed
long ago by our criminal justice system when he discussed sensitive matters of
state and made decisions about the future of our country. Now, some people will argue that I’m being
harsh, even unreasonable, reminding me that Ramaphosa didn’t win an outright
mandate in Nasrec in December 2017 and could therefore not get rid of the
ministers implicated in various forms of crimes against the interests of our
country; ministers whose very being stood in stark contrast with the ideals of
a Thuma Mina-buttressed new dawn. But all of this resulted in the whole journey,
from the long-awaited and most-welcomed departure of the one-whose-name-I-shall-not-mention
to the 2019 elections, being turned into a “do as I say; not as I do” slow
waltz on a cracked album track. Ok, that is a bit harsh; but I hope you get the
point I’m trying to make. The next chapter Essentially, and probably because of not
having won an outright majority in Nasrec and having to work with an awesomely
problematic and ethically conflicted Secretary-General who contradicts him at
every turn, President Ramaphosa has not really been able to show that he
doesn’t stand for nonsense. There is not a single problematic person
that he removed from a ministerial office, where he doesn’t first need any
court or commission of inquiry to tell him to do so, out of his own judgement
and need to lead from the front when it comes to ethical leadership. But much of that is now a matter of
yesterday; sort of. The next Ramaphosa chapter – assuming that
he would have been strengthened after winning the 2019 election – must be the
one where the decisive Ramaphosa comes out of his shell and calls to order even
those in his ranks who act against the interests of our country and his own
project to lead our great country on a much-needed path to reputational
recovery that should pave the way for investment growth and economic stability. Whoever becomes our next president will
need the support of all South Africans, not only those who would have voted for
his/her party, to unite our people around a shared set of national goals that
will exclude no part of our population. Too much time and energy have already
been lost in unnecessary squabbling. We need to start building together again! * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own. Find everything you need to know about the 2019 National and Provincial Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections. Make sure your News24 app is updated to access all our elections coverage in one place.