It really is no
cliché to say that the national elections on Wednesday will be critical to the
future of all South Africans. From social
indicators such as poverty levels and unemployment to macro-indicators such as
GDP performance and debt levels, this is an economy in deep difficulty.
Combined with declining levels of governance integrity via increasing
corruption, the stage is set for the most important vote since 1994. Simply put, the
status quo is untenable. Something has to give. The mismanagement, rot and
policy paralysis have to change. The choice is stark – fundamental structural
and ideological shifts are needed to arrest the decline. Nothing short of that
will disappoint on the downside, leaving the country vulnerable to further
social decay, the perpetuation of inequality and, more worryingly, the
re-fuelling more populist alternatives. Economists and
the broader business community argue that a solid ANC win – seen by them as a
vote more for the Ramaphosa factor than anything else – will begin a process of
restoring faith, dignity and prudent policy choices from the governing party. More than talk Assuming a
Ramaphosa victory on May 8 at around 57% of the popular vote, the mandate is
clearly sufficient to a new course. But, the realpolitik of the ANC within the context of a changing domestic
political environment remains an impediment to real change. It will simply
not be good enough to talk up economic change. Policy actions will be required.
And, in an ANC still deeply divided on a variety of core issues, Ramaphosa’s
victory might provide him with the constitutional power, but less so within his
own party. The ideological
paralysis within the ANC will need to be broken on the issue of the role of the
State-Owned Enterprises – particularly that of Eskom. Ramaphosa and Finance
Minister Tito Mboweni (if he survives into the new Cabinet) may well be ahead
of the broader ANC decision-making bodies and rank-and-file-membership when it
comes to relinquishing some shareholdings in the loss-making behemoth. Heads in the sand For the entire
election campaign, the ANC have largely shied away from dealing with the issues
of what to do about the SOEs. The party has simply been too afraid to come
clean to its own electorate that a change-of-thinking is required to deal with
the relationship between the state and its SOEs. Although Mr
Mboweni had mooted the idea of a re-think on government’s historical desire for
SOE control, it’s an issue that has simply been ignored on the campaign trail.
Indeed, the inability of the state to manage SOEs is at the heart of the fiscal
cliff South Africa stands upon. There has been no desire to deal with this
issue honestly and openly in the campaign as the divisiveness it causes within
the ANC means it’s better left untouched – at least for the sakes of unity
during campaigning. Similarly so,
the issue of nationalising the Reserve Bank has received scant attention.
Whilst it might be more of an esoteric issue to an electorate concerned about
bread-and-butter issues, it cuts to the heart of restoring confidence in the domestic
economy. Although more
symbolic than anything else, avoiding a formal nationalisation would send a
message of confidence to domestic and global investors. Again, the issue
divides the ANC internally with little consensus. Land and the Constitution And of course,
the third major issue – is that of land expropriation without compensation and
the pending constitutional amendment to clarify this. It is quite remarkable
that this issue has been so buried in the election campaign. Clearly, the
restoration of confidence in the domestic economy will rest on clarity
regarding tenure/ownership rights. With days to go before the vote, South
Africans still have absolutely no idea what government policy will be on an
issue that can result in substantial conflict. More broadly
speaking, a future Ramaphosa administration is expected to court the private
sector to a greater degree. This it can largely do with the backing of the
larger ANC. But, the issues of SOEs, the Reserve Bank and Land can well
undermine any overtures made to the private sector for greater domestic or
foreign direct investment. Fundamentally,
the hard work for Ramaphosa will only begin after he wins the election. And
much of that work will be within his own party. What will the
composition of his new Cabinet be? Will it review and completely overhaul the
existing economic cluster of Ministers? Can Ramaphosa steer a review of
moribund ideological myopia within his own party to shift towards a greater
role for the private sector? Can he ‘sell’ a divestiture – at least in part –
of aspects of the SOEs? Can he lessen deleterious effects of cadre deployment
that has – at least in part – been so detrimental to the SOEs decline? Can Ramaphosa
instil some commitment to greater deregulation on broad economic policy and so
remove the influence of those old-style ‘statists’ who still see the role of
government as bigger and all-encompassing? And, can he tweak the demands of the
trade-unions to create a more competitive work-force attractive enough to
secure FDI and breath life back into key employment-creators like the ailing
manufacturing sector? These are big
issues. And fundamental to the ideological straitjacket that the ANC has found
itself in. The battle-lines will be within the ANC despite what could be a
solid mandate on paper for Ramaphosa. And, with the EFF likely show the most
growth of any political party on Wednesday, the debate on just how far
Ramaphosa can go is likely to become even more problematic. Ultimately,
Ramaphosa will have a choice. Will he put the interests of his own party first
– their divisions, history and fears of a stronger EFF – or will he put the
interests of South Africa first in its urgent needs to real structural and
policy reform? It’s the ultimate test for any leader – and one of critical
importance within the South Africa of 2019. The challenge awaits. Daniel Silke
is a political analyst, author and keynote speaker. Views expressed are his
own. Find everything you need to know about the 2019 National and Provincial Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections. Make sure your News24 app is updated to access all our elections coverage in one place. 