"I’m
not a terrorist/I’m a freedom fighter." So run the opening lines of a song sung
in ANC camps in the exile years. They sum up an ongoing problem of
communication; of the use and abuse of words in ways that can have very real
consequences. This problem tends to be created, and exacerbated,
by propagandists, and promoted, perhaps unwittingly, by journalists while being
used, often unthinkingly, by organisations across the board. It has the
effect of dumbing down debate and reinforcing prejudices that should be
challenged. Distorted information, peppered with biased and
emotional terminology, can play a significant role in genocidal horrors. Words
become weapons. It was for this reason that the United Nations, in 1993,
declared May 3 to be World Press Freedom Day, a decision vindicated again by
the mass murders in Rwanda and Bosnia in 1994 and 1995. Daily Maverick, the SA National Editors’ Forum and
Media Monitoring Africa will this afternoon host a
discussion forum in St George’s cathedral, Cape Town. It will deal with
the threat to democracy of misinformation and fake news. This accords with the statement of UN secretary
general Antonio Gueterres when he defined the day: "No democracy is
complete without access to transparent and reliable information. It is the
cornerstone for building fair and impartial institutions, holding leaders
accountable and speaking truth to power." Since most African countries have a less than
pristine image regarding freedom of expression, let alone of the media, it seems
almost ironic that the major international conference event this year — in
conjunction with the African Union — was staged in Ethiopia from May 1 to May
3. Almost ironic because Ethiopia, which last year had the greatest
numbers of journalists under lock and key, has, under its new president,
released all detainees. However, Ethiopia, along with 29 other African
states, still features in the bottom half of the international Press Freedom
Index compiled by Reporters Without Borders. The theme of the Addis Ababa
conference seems particularly pertinent to South Africa on the eve of the May 8
poll: "Media for democracy: journalism and elections in times of
disinformation." Media's role But there was a worrying addendum: "Media’s
role in supporting peace and reconciliation processes." No mention of
holding leaders accountable or of speaking truth to power at a time when
leaders all too often decide what constitutes any peace and reconciliation
process. Elections in particular tend to be "times of
disinformation" as politicians vie with one another – and frequently lie — in
frantic efforts to win votes in what is claimed to be a democratic
process. If by democracy we mean power to "the people" — to the
electorate — then even South Africa is a flawed example. This was recognised by the governing ANC at the time
of the negotiations that led to the transition from apartheid. Proportional representation on a party list system was a compromise, agreed
mainly to placate the White Right and their supporters. At the time there was an understanding that this
system, that could encourage patronage networks and which reduced the
electorate to voting fodder in five-yearly cycles, should be changed. Change was supposed to happen by 2004 following the report in January 2003 of
an Electoral Task Team established by cabinet in 2002. Nothing happened. Today, it can be argued, we are still suffering the
consequences of a system posing as democracy. Here is the rub: words have the power to create illusions of reality and can trigger emotional
responses rather than encourage critical thought. The casual, uncritical,
use of the term democracy is a classic example. This was well illustrated this week by the coverage
of the crisis in Venezuela. There seems puzzlement within the media
generally that the South African government and the trade unions have not, in
the name of democracy, joined in the call for regime change. The situation is complex and neither the unions nor
government seem to have provided information to clarify the issue. In
such situations, it is those media workers, journalists, who should come to the
fore. Meltdown It could be explained,
without bias, that the slump in oil prices, disastrous policies and grandiose
schemes by former president Hugo Chavez contributed to a steady economic
meltdown in Venezuela. But the economy was also strangled by sanctions
aimed at regime change and applied by US president Barack Obama, subsequently
strengthened by Donald Trump. This in a country where the elected
executive president and the cabinet he appoints serve for six years while the
deputies in the national assembly serve for five. It was always a
constitutional crisis in the making. In the presidential
election of May last year, most of the fragmented opposition parties, which
together controlled the national assembly, boycotted. But Maduro won with
68% of the vote against two opposition candidates and with a voter turnout of
46%. In January when Juan Guaidó, representing one of the smaller parties, took his
turn, in an agreed rotation among opposition parties, to head the assembly, US
secretary of state, Mike Pompeo and vice-president Mike Pence assured him of US
backing if he declared himself president. He promptly did so, the US
and its allies recognised his effective parliamentary coup. The crisis
escalated. There are similar
distortions, promoting political agendas either domestically or
internationally, many of them simply devices geared at obscuring blatant
thievery and corruption. South Africa, courtesy of a quite free and alert
media, has become aware of a slew of these. The threat they pose to any
form of democracy should be made clear in the discussions in Cape Town this
afternoon. Worryingly, the labour movement, which should be to the
forefront of media freedom and democracy, has no significant presence.