Jerry Mpufane, chair of diversified marketing agency M&C Saatchi Johannesburg Group, is the new Americas hub head for SA Tourism (SAT) in New York. "My time at M&C Saatchi Abel has been characterised by creating award-winning work that drives business results and changes people's lives. Nation branding, itself is not a new concept for me, having worked at SAT years ago. It is a noble cause, and I feel more than equipped to fly the South African flag," Mpufane told Fin24. He explained that the world is characterised by complexity and consumers everywhere respond to simple ideas. "Promoting South Africa as a desired tourism destination requires an approach that will help to differentiate ourselves in a very competitive global market," added Mpufane. He is proud to have partnered with what he deems to be the best in the advertising game, and helping to grow the business over the last five years - winning an Agency of the Year accolade along the way. "We acquired some of the most sought after brands, worked with some amazing clients, diversified our group offering, and have attracted incredible talent to our agency," said Mpufane. "The best ideas connect consumers to brands. So, regardless of industry sector, a communicator's job is to produce ground-breaking campaigns." SAT's ambition for the Americas is to grow the market by 15% every year in the next three years. "There's a lot of work to be done. South Africa competes against the world's best holiday destinations. Our job will be to design a very differentiated proposition in a highly cluttered American market," said Mpufane. "Growing tourist arrivals has a direct impact on job creation and growing the economy in general. There is no greater responsibility." Mike Abel, co-founder and chief executive of the M&C Saatchi Group (Africa) said Mpufane had made an enormous contribution to growing the group in Johannesburg over the past five years. "He has seen in the arrival of many wonderful partner businesses, amazing clients and has attracted lots of incredible talent. He leaves our company stronger and broader and I want to thank him for his enormous contribution," said Abel.