Africa needs about a million managers to effectively run the continent's economy that has a gross domestic product of over R40trn, according to Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry Bulelani Magwanishe. "We only have 300 000 managers and we need 700 000 more managers. The youth should also be in the forefront of ensuring that Africa's economic integration does not fail," Magwanishe said at a Youth Opportunities and Career Expo. The expo was hosted by the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) in partnership with the Department of Communications and the Ekurhuleni Metro Municipality in Germiston. "About 60% of Africa's arable land lies fallow. This creates unlimited opportunities for massive employment, poverty eradication, industrialisation, entrepreneurship and scholarly research," added Magwanishe. In his view, providing the youth of Africa with information and knowledge will ensure that they are well-equipped to face future challenges and opportunities such as the 4th Industrial Revolution. "Realising the full potential of the youth is when critical information is availed to arm the youth for future battles and opportunities," said Magwanishe. He added that it is important for all countries of Africa to commit to developing an informed youth that appreciates the challenges and the agenda of the continent.    "It is only when we succeed in creating a working Africa that peace will reign. This expo should therefore be understood in the context of a programme aimed at achieving economic freedom where all are able to realise their full potential. For any country to realise and sustain economic freedom, they must have developed an informed workforce comprising young people capable of leading a programme for continued change," said Magwanishe. He also said there was a need to change the mindset of the young people so that they are able to see opportunities in the challenges facing the continent. Magwanishe reiterated the importance of the collaboration between government and the private sector in growing the SA economy. 