Few
men and women in South African politics have had as many false starts as President
Cyril Ramaphosa has. Since the 1970s and 1980s, when Ramaphosa began to make
his name as a student and trade union leader, the president has either been positioned
with power within sight or within a few steps to taking it; even though the
spotlight has not always been focused on him. He
was always the ‘other fellow’ in the picture. Even when the newly released
Nelson Mandela left prison and addressed the curious, excited crowds on the
Parade in Cape Town, Ramaphosa was always close by, dutifully at hand to assist. When
he, together with the National Party’s Roelf Meyer, laid the foundation for the
country’s post-apartheid Constitution, Ramaphosa was always in the shadow of
great men and women. They either trusted him to have a decent, yet difficult,
conversation without throwing chairs when things didn’t go his way; or
entrusted him with delicate tasks that would define the future of a country,
and us. In
more recent years, Ramaphosa walked alongside the former president as his deputy
for some five years, ostensibly as if stepping carefully on eggs to avoid breaking
them, or toppling the apple cart that he would need much later if he were to
become president. We
have been told ad nauseam that
Ramaphosa had no choice during the past five years – even though he knew that
what was going on around him was not right – but to bid his time. So, he had to
quietly watch as his former boss made a mockery of the very Constitution
Ramaphosa spent years, in the early 1990s, painstakingly negotiating. This in a
climate of regular inter and intra-party tensions, stops-and-goes, sweat and
blood in commuter trains, at hostels, and in townships like Boipatong,
Katlehong, Soweto, and Mpumalanga. It
has been a strange kind of quiet, often indirect and seemingly unintended
grooming for high office indeed. We should hope the wisdom he would have
acquired will serve him, and us, well. Ramaphosa’s time The
next five years, starting now, will be an opportunity for the spotlight to sit
squarely on Ramaphosa; the man who is no longer just ‘the other fellow’ in the
picture. All
cameras are on him. The gruelling practice time is over, and so is the time for
excuses, whether such excuses continue to be made by the many who have made it
their job to constantly second-guess the president, or directly from himself. We
may have voted for a political party, but whom Ramaphosa appoints into his Cabinet
– for they will all serve at the pleasure of the president – and how he leads South
Africa over the next five years, will cement his own legacy. We
should wonder, what does Ramaphosa want to be known for and to be associated
with? What words does he imagine, when he closes his eyes, will be written on
his political epitaph in five or ten years’ time? Does any of this matter?
Should it matter? It
should matter to us. South
Africa and we, the people who live in it, are tired. We have been massively
abused over the past ten years and are longing for positive signs that things
will change. Fortunately,
Ramaphosa seems to have noticed this general fatigue and sense of ‘gatvolness’.
Many of us got a shiver down our spines when he promised in his inauguration
speech that he would be a president of all South Africans, not just those who
belong to the party he leads or voted for it. We
all know that he has to juggle two often contradicting hats, his party hat and
his country hat, in order to maintain what is clearly a fine balance. But we
should hope that the time for paying more attention to party matters than to
the more general country matters will soon be a thing of the past. South
Africa is hungry for Ramaphosa’s attention. If he’s not aware of the call made
here, I hope one of his advisers will whisper this into his ear. The choices Ramaphosa must make Those
of us in ‘the rest of South Africa’ have very little influence over who becomes
deputy president and winds up the Cabinet. The choices are made elsewhere and will
be what they will be; but we should hope that those chosen can be trusted to
remember the systemic pain accumulated over the past ten years, and that they will
make it their personal and collective mission to remove the remnants of that
pain and ensure that none of what brought it about ever happens again. Otherwise
we will be lost, and reputational recovery for country will take a lot longer
to realise. Seen
from a different perspective, and if it’ll make it easier for them – since parliamentarians
and Cabinet ministers in this country strangely believe they’re there to only
serve the political parties that sent them there – we should hope they never
forget that they’d be there to help President Cyril Ramaphosa finally get to write
his chapter in our history books. Like
him or not, fear the political party he leads or not, Ramaphosa will be, at
least for the next five years, the only president we have. We should stand
behind him and encourage him when he does right for country, and we should support
him if he comes under attack from the rogue remnants of corruption and other
forms of state capture strewn all over the structures of the party he leads. If
he fails, we all fail, because there is no sign, as things stand, of anyone
else in the top leadership of his party that would make sure that the good work
he has begun will continue, should anything befall our president. Whistleblowers,
independent media, investigative journalists, and civil society in all its
formations should remain patriotic, yet vigilant. They should continue to stand
for and insist on the country we all know we can still be if led by leaders
with vision, balance, emotional intelligence, maturity, empathy, credibility, and
a stubborn drive to make South Africa the most attractive country in the world.