Volkswagen shares advanced the most in five months after 
first-quarter profit rose and the German carmaker stuck to annual 
earnings goals despite a global market slowdown and rising legal costs. The 

stock jumped as much as 5.2% after the world’s biggest carmaker’s
 
operating profit rose to €4.8 billion, excluding a €1
 billion provision for legal costs. VW boosted sales of lucrative 
sport utility vehicles, while benefiting from favorable exchange rates 
and the revaluation of financial instruments that added €400 million  to the result. Volkswagen delivered a “surprisingly strong” set of earnings with 
good results across the VW, Audi and Skoda brands, Citigroup said in a 
report. VW improved its model mix and cost saving efforts gained 
traction, the bank said. Mixed start VW is weathering a slowdown in China better than most of its peers. 
The company said it gained share in its biggest market, which has 
contracted for 10 straight months overall amid an economic slowdown and 
trade tensions with the US Volkswagen will still meet annual target 
for vehicle sales and revenue, even after deliveries at Porsche and 
Audi, its two top profit contributors, declined during the first 
quarter. The passenger car business was “very stable,” Chief Financial Officer
 

Frank Witter told reporters on Thursday. He added that the carmaker needed 
to speed the transformation of its business amid growing global economic
 risks. That process took a step back in March, when Volkswagen shelved a 
partial share sale of the Traton SE heavy-trucks unit, the centerpiece 
of a company revamp to become less centralised and boost efficiency. The
 move, blamed on market conditions, disappointed investors and came 
shortly before Swiss train maker 

Stadler Rail AG completed a successful listing. A public offering of Traton remains “a desired outcome,” Witter said.
 Unlocking value still is “a priority” for VW as the company is 
“tremendously undervalued,” he said, declining to identify how the 
company is going to lift its valuation. VW told investors in March it plans to provide a strategy update this summer. VW is also seeking to expand its sprawling Chinese operations to 
boost production and research in the country that’s leading a global 
shift toward electric vehicles. It plans to expand activities with all 
three joint venture partners as about half of the 22 million 
battery-electric vehicles it plans to produce by 2028 are bound to be 
sold in its largest market. VW has ventures with SAIC and FAW Car, two of China’s
 largest manufacturers, after being one of the first foreign automakers 
to arrive in China more than three decades ago. VW is also exploring 
options to 
acquire a stake in its smaller third partner Anhui Jianghuai Automobile 
Group. Witter said he was “a bit more” 
optimistic about a demand recovery in China during the second half of the year. VW expects to boost annual deliveries and revenue slightly despite 
slowing economic growth, intensifying competition and spending to meet 
new emissions tests in Europe. The return on sales in the passenger car 
division is set for 6.5% to 7.5%. Shares gain VW was up 4.7% at €162.26 as of 11:11 in Frankfurt 
trading, taking gains this year to 17%. 

Porsche Automobil Holding, the Porsche-Piech family-controlled 
investment company that’s VW’s main shareholder, gained as much as 4.8%. Revenue at the main VW car brand, accounting for about half of global
 deliveries, rose 7.1%, while operating profit came in at €921 
million. This excludes special items of €400 million relating
 to fallout from the diesel-emissions cheating scandal. Overall, costs 
related the 2015 revelations Volkswagen had rigged as many as 11 million
 diesel vehicles worldwide to dupe emissions tests have reached €30 
billion. Talks with 

Ford to cooperate on 
vans, which may extend into joint projects on electric and self-driving 
vehicles, are progressing well with the “finishing line in sight,” 
Witter said on a call with reporters.  