With
elite-pact black economic empowerment under the whip, the leading political
parties have put their power behind worker ownership. This form
of black economic empowerment of selling or giving stakes to workers is likely
to gain ground as economic policy after the election on May 8. The first
generation of BEE deals saw white capital sell off stakes to black leaders it
was networked with. This saw people like President Cyril Ramaphosa and the
billionaire Patrice Motsepe grow fabulously wealthy as they were cut into deal
after deal, but did not impact transformatively on the businesses they were cut
into. Other black
business people who benefited from their contacts included the likes of former
ANC leaders like Saki Macozoma, Cheryl Carolus and Mohamed Valli Moosa, but the
effect was not sufficiently socialised or transformative to get the required
buy-in to a market-based economy, because these individuals largely played by
the old rules of apartheid monopoly capital. Others,
like Zimbabwean mining magnate, Mzi Khumalo, cashed out early leaving companies
in the lurch without the BEE points that secure political influence and
commercial success, either through licences or through tenders. Later on,
as black empowerment developed (or regressed, perhaps), it became
indistinguishable from rentier capitalism as economic mercenaries like the
Gupta family and other patronage networks began to milk the state under the
guise of BEE. The Gupta
family’s foray into mining and coal supply to Eskom was disguised as a massive
BEE bid to up-end coal supply chains that had always favoured mining capital. This
did not work so well, as the country has suffered almost a decade of skittish
power supply while Eskom has been so bankrupted that it can easily take the
state down with it. Enter
worker ownership as the new method favoured by both the governing ANC and the
official opposition DA. The ANC has promised to "introduce legislation for
the extension of company ownership to a broad base of workers through an
employee ownership scheme and similar arrange arrangements to supplement
workers’ incomes and build greater partnerships between workers and owners to build
these businesses," according to its manifesto. It
continues: "Social
partners (government, labour and business) will put together the minimum
thresholds and conditionalities to govern the establishment of worker-ownership
funds, paving the way to empower millions of workers across the economy." The ANC
says that it will provide public assistance (which means state funding) to help
workers buy shares. Torrid time The DA has
had a torrid time with BEE. A powerful faction wanted the party to drop its
support completely, and in the upheaval, the former head of policy, Gwen
Ngwenya, resigned in fury. The party’s manifesto is a hash on black
empowerment, but it is clear in its support for Employee Share Ownership
Schemes (ESOS). The party,
if in government, would change the BEE scorecard (a verified measure of a
company’s empowerment standing) to weight Esops. The DA’s manifesto pledges to:
"Firstly, award significant weight to ESOS so that employees as a group
become substantial stakeholders in the business. This would grow black equity
while the company would benefit from the increases in productivity that
ownership confers." It is clear
from the manifestoes that employee ownership is going to see a push to
stakeholder capitalism. There are a few examples of where the model has worked
in South Africa, but not sufficient to make it norm-altering. If employee
ownership is used only as a way of buying workplace peace, then it is valuable,
but not as valuable a model as that practiced in Germany and some Scandinavian
countries, where workers can impact on strategy, productivity and ultimately on
society. If we are
headed for deep stakeholder ownership, it can be transformative black
empowerment -which has eluded South Africa for decades.