While there has been much media debate about what "black
middle-class" voters will do today, there has been nothing about where the
votes of unionised workers may go. Perhaps because it is assumed that, in terms of labour
voting patterns, nothing much has changed in the 25 years since the transition
from apartheid. Then it was clear that the members of the trade unions
organised under the umbrella of the Cosatu federation were, with very few
exceptions, solidly behind the ANC. And Cosatu was, far and away, the largest
organised grouping within the labour movement. Members of the smaller anti-apartheid federation, the
National Council of Trade Unions (Nactu), if they did not put their crosses
beside the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) could also be assumed to vote for the
ANC. And among the unions affiliated to what became the Federation of Unions
(Fedusa), while there was no clear political linkage, it was widely assumed
that most members supported the ANC in the transitional elections of 1994. Among the trade unions that supported apartheid and that
later became Solidarity, there was considerable anger at what was seen as the "betrayal"
of the once dominant National Party. Members of this group, if they did not
abstain in 1994, probably voted for the Freedom Front (now FF+). The former Parliamentary opposition under apartheid, the
Democratic Party, now the Democratic Alliance (DA) clearly found no favour with
union members at the time of the first democratic poll. But, in the intervening
25 years, much has changed across the board and the political situation is as
volatile within organised labour as anywhere else. Today Cosatu is a shadow of its former self, weakened by job
losses, factionalism and fragmentation. The SA Communist Party (SACP), like
Cosatu, allied to the ANC, still exerts considerable political influence, among
its larger affiliates of the federation. Cosatu and its affiliates are bound, by a conference
resolution, to regard the SACP as "the workers’ party". This means
that, so long as the SACP remains allied to the ANC, so too must Cosatu and its
affiliates. Partly as a result of disgruntlement with the alliance,
there have been demands from within both the federation and the SACP for "the
Party" to contest elections. However, in the months leading up to the 2019
poll, alliance unity has been the dominant call. But there is evidently considerable disquiet within the
ranks of Cosatu, and this may lead to more abstentions from voting rather than
support for another party. There could, however, be some support, for the
Socialist Revolutionary Workers’ Party (SRWP) set up by the National Union of
Metalworkers (Numsa). The largest union The largest union in the land, with probably more than 330
000 members, Numsa is a core affiliate of the SA Federation of Trade Unions
(Saftu), headed by former Cosatu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi. Saftu has
not declared support for any one party, although leading figures in the
federation are on the Parliamentary list of the SRWP. It also seems likely that members of other Saftu affiliates,
especially those in the other large breakaway from Cosatu, the Food and Allied
Workers’ Union (Fawu) will come out to vote for the SRWP. A number of members of the tiny socialist groupings within
the labour movement, although expressing reservations about the authoritarian —
"Stalinist" — nature of the SRWP have also indicated support. Should these union members and others on the "Left"
cast their votes for the "Numsa union", the SRWP could gain more than
500 000 votes. Whatever happens, this newest party on the Parliamentary block
should have a presence in the 2019 Parliament. However, there are many unionists angry with the ANC, and
the influence they maintain the SACP wields, who are also not prepared to
support what they see as "SACP Mark 2" (the SRWP). Where they do not
abstain, their votes may go to the DA. Lesser of evils? At a provincial level, especially in the Western Cape and,
perhaps to a lesser extent, KZN, some traditional ANC votes from within the
labour movement could go to, respectively, the DA and the Inkatha Freedom
Party. Several trade union and ANC stalwarts in the Western Cape have indicated
that they will "hold my nose and vote DA" in the province. They quote this as the "lesser of evils". But most
will still vote ANC nationally in the hope of "strengthening Cyril
Ramaphosa". There seems to be a similar sentiment at play within KZN. EFF and labour Currently the third largest Parliamentary party, the
Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) does not seem to have made much headway with
organised labour. But this party has clearly gained substantial support among
mainly young ununionised and unemployed workers. Solidarity, a professed Christian and nationalist union
whose members are "mainly Afrikaners", has increased its membership
over the past decade to perhaps 130 000. These unionists are unlikely to
abstain, and their votes will almost certainly go to the FF+. The 'gatvol factor' But abstention, along with — to a much lesser extent — the "plague
on all your houses" tactic of spoiling the ballot papers may be quite pronounced
among trade unionists. This is the "gatvol factor" in play. The only other party list headed by a former leading trade
unionist, African Democratic Change (ADeC), was established by former ANC Parliamentarian
Makhosi Khoza, who has now resigned from the party. The president of ADeC is
Moses Mayekiso, the founding general secretary of Numsa. The party with most former trade unionists on its Parliamentary
list is the ANC, while a former president of Cosatu, Willie Madisha, who
entered Parliament as a member of the Congress of the People (COPE) remains on
this party’s list. Voter turnout Given the large number of voters who chose not to register,
the perhaps 250 000-plus who have not collected their IDs and the number who
are likely to abstain, a turnout today of much more than 70% is unlikely. There may, once again, be more than a dozen parties in Parliament,
including the union-based SRWP, and the government will again represent the
votes of a minority of the total electorate.