Small
Talk: How to Start a Conversation, Truly Connect with Others and Make a Killer
First Impression by Diane Weston Search
Amazon for books on communication skills and you get over 50 000 listings. Do
the same for making small talk, and you will find only 18% as many. It
is not because only sales people (a fraction of the business population) need
to master the art of small talk - virtually everyone does. It is small talk
that starts relationships and expands your network, and keeps loose
relationships connected. This skill deserves attention. Author
Diane Weston has pulled together accessible models and useful advice with an
underlying theme of authenticity. Accept that you're always
communicating Let
us start with the fact that you cannot not
communicate. In any exchange, whether verbal or otherwise, you are always communicating,
and every communication has a content and a relationship aspect. Even if you do
nothing, that is sending a clear message. There is nothing I can or wish to
communicate, and I do not wish to or cannot communicate with you. Communication
involves both what you say and how you say it. If there is a discrepancy
between the words and the tone or body language, people consistently believe
the non-verbal language. Your facial expression, in conjunction with your tone
of voice, communicated more than the words you say. Use non-verbal cues better Smiling,
an open, interested look, a neutral yet friendly face, or twinkling eyes are
beneficial expressions. A frown, a bored face, a scared expression, a nervous, or
an agitated look convey negative emotions and are counter-productive. Posture
shows a lot about what you are feeling. A slumped posture tends to convey
sadness, discontent, and giving up. Before
going into a social situation, a meeting, conference or event, "take five
seconds and create an intention for what you want to communicate," Watson
recommends. Set an intention It
is important to have the correct mindset when going into a social situation. If
you are negative and upset, those feelings communicate themselves to the other
person through your body language, facial expression, and tone of voice. Your mindset
is what tends to give your unconscious mind direction. Having a positive
mindset will affect both the words that you speak as well as your non-verbal
language, in order to bring about the kind of positive social experience that
you want. SOFTEN
is the acronym Watson uses for the key elements of positive non-verbal
behaviours. It stands for smile, open posture, forward lean, touch by shaking
hands, eye contact, and nod. Let go of fear A
common barrier to engaging in small talk is the fear of being judged. The five-second
mindset preparation described above can be infused with a visualisation of
yourself as part of the group, smiling and talking easily. A
valuable antidote to this fear is to genuinely care about the person you're
speaking to and this is articulated in Watson's 'General Rules for Small Talk'
section of the book. Listen It
all starts with listening. Every person wants to be seen, recognised, and
listened to. Listening is one of the best gifts you can give a person. To
truly listen you need to be quiet inside, really paying attention to the words
you are hearing and the cues you are receiving. Then respond in a way that
shows that you have been listening and paying attention. Of
course, your conversational partners may not be practicing true listening, but there's
no need to be offended, they simply aren't skilled yet. The
second imperative is to be curious. Many people don't practice this
conversational rule. It is easy to "find others boring, and often because
we are enamoured with our own story," Watson notes. By truly listening and
paying attention you will find that people are far more fascinating. "Try
looking at each person that you make small talk with as a treasure chest just waiting
to be opened and the jewels within revealed." …But also talk It
is also helpful to provide information about yourself. However, the rule of
thumb is to let the other do more talking than you do, while at the same time
not letting the conversation lag. It
is axiomatic that one needs to be respectful, but with the plethora of
sensitivities strangers may have, it is necessary to be especially cautious. No
one is going to want to keep talking to someone who is perceived as rude. Pay attention to body language Watch
the non-verbal cues. If you get the feeling from the body language of the
person you are talking to that they are bored, end the contact. There is no
shame in moving on when the conversation is not going well. You can excuse
yourself to get a drink or something else that will allow you to make a
graceful exit from the conversation. There
is power in first impressions. If a book doesn't have a good cover, it doesn't
matter how great the story is; nobody is going to read it. We assess a person
in the first moment of looking at them and in the first minute or so of talking
to them. The
book is filled with many practical techniques and insights including, that "it
all comes down to treating a person right. Respect, honesty, authenticity,
being genuinely interested in other people, and showing kindness is all it
takes to become a small talk master." This
is a useful and easy book to read. Readability         Light
+--- Serious Insights              High
-+--- Low Practical              High -+--- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults internationally on strategy and
implementation and is the author of 'Strategy that Works' and 'The Executive
Update.' Views expressed are his own.