Robben Island Museum recently revised its pricing model after 22 years to enhance its long-term financial sustainability, but the museum maintains it is currently financially stable. Earlier on Thursday Fin24 reported that Robben Island will implement a two-tier pricing model, charging locals and foreigners separate rates for an entry ticket. Locals will pay less than foreigners to visit the former prison which held freedom fighters such as Nelson Mandela, Govan Mbeki and Ahmed Kathrada. In an emailed response to Fin24 about the reasons for changing the pricing model, the museum's spokesperson reiterated previous statements that apart from ensuring the long-term sustainability of the Robben Island Museum (RIM), the aim is to also attract more domestic visitors. "The funds generated will assist in enhancing the interpretation of the island and improve RIM's product offering whilst ensuring continued protection and preservation of Island’s rich history as a World Heritage Site which symbolises the triumph of the human spirit over adversity," the email read. Financially stable When asked about the status of RIM's financial position, the spokesperson said it remains financially stable. According to the 2017/18 annual report tabled in Parliament, the museums net cash position stood at R247m in 2018, up from R217m reported in 2017. This is also substantially higher than the R179m reported in 2016. The museum's surplus or profit at 2018 was R12.8m, compared to R22.6m reported in 2017 and R11.7m reported in 2016. Dwindling tourists According to the Cape Town Tourism Annual report form 2017/18, the number of tourists to Robben Island declined 18%, while overall tourism in the region declined by 4%. The industry had been battling with the negative impacts of Visa and birth certificate requirements and the drought, among other things. RIM has said that during the drought years, visitor numbers increased, due to reduced weather-related cancellations. Following the drought, there have been increased weather-related cancellations, reducing visitor numbers. The new pricing model comes into effect from June 1. Non-South Africans will pay R550 ($40 | €35) per ticket, and non-South African children between the ages of 2 and 18 will pay R300 ($15 | €15) per ticket. South African adults will pay R380 per ticket, and children get to visit Robben Island for R200. The ticket price includes the cost of a ferry return trip, transport on the island, a guided island tour and a guided prison tour by an ex-political prisoner. In previous years Robben Island has increased entry fees on a "marginal basis" to match inflation.