The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) has terminated the employment contract of its former company secretary - currently the general manager responsible for risk management - Matome (Tumi) Mohube. According to a statement issued by Prasa, the decision to terminate Mohube's employment contract was reached at the conclusion of his disciplinary hearing on various charges involving the falsification of board resolutions of a meeting held on February 28, 2011 that dealt with submissions of three companies to be considered for different services. Group CEO, Dr. Nkosinathi Sishi, said Prasa is committed to make sure it has a calibre of individuals and employees that are ethical, honourable and who understand the mandate of the organisation and their role in contributing to delivering public value for SA. Sishi further stated that Prasa belongs to South Africa and must be "claimed back" from state capture. "We are focused on delivering efficient service to the commuters who experience hardships associated with over-crowding, delays and cancellations, and, are determined to rid Prasa of corruption, nepotism and administrative inefficiencies," said Sishi. The chairperson of the Prasa board of control, Khanyisile Kweyama, said the board is resolute on its commitment to build a better PRASA that is focused on its mandate to provide a safe, reliable and affordable commuter experience. "The board remains committed to leaving Prasa better than we found it," said Kweyama. From the findings arising out of the verdict of the disciplinary hearing, Sishi has terminated Mohube's employment contractwith immediate effect. Fin24 reported earlier on Wednesday that Prasa suspended or placed on special leave three senior executives amid ongoing investigations. In a statement Prasa said that its chief strategy officer Dr Sipho Sithole had been placed on suspension. Its head of legal, risk and compliance Martha Ngoye, and Tiro Holele - an executive in the office of the group CEO -  have been placed on special leave."This decision follows the outcomes and ongoing investigations that have dogged Prasa of improper, irregular, corrupt, fruitless and wasteful expenditure by various employees of Prasa at all levels of the organisation," the group said in an earlier statement. 