Steinhoff International was for many years run by a board of
 tight-knit people, many of whom had done business together for decades. Just how close they were became apparent with the release of 
Steinhoff’s 
2017 annual report on Tuesday, which identified a plethora of 
related-party transactions that the company now says weren’t properly 
disclosed according to best corporate governance practice. Third-party deals are at the heart of an ongoing accounting crisis 
that’s almost destroyed the global retailer. In March, Steinhoff 
identified eight individuals it said were allegedly responsible for 
inflating asset and profit values, contributing to $17bn of 
writedowns. Those included ex-Chief executive officer 

Markus Jooste and other former senior employees. Here’s what Steinhoff’s annual report shows about companies and transactions involving former and current directors: Christo Wiese, former chairperson  Steinhoff found instances where transactions between the company and 
Wiese-owned entities weren’t properly disclosed. The billionaire has an 
interest in 10 different companies that had dealings with Steinhoff, 
including Brait, Shoprite [JSE:SHP], Upington Investments, Titan Premier Investments, Toerama
and Invicta Holdings. Some of the deals also involved the 
billionaire’s son, Jacob. "It shouldn’t surprise anyone that I was in a number of related-party
 transactions with Steinhoff,"

Christo Wiese said by phone, citing the sale of his pan-African clothing
 business Pepkor as one notable example. "I have nothing further to add 
other than under Dutch codes the concept of related party isn’t 
applicable." Wiese wasn’t among the eight identified by Steinhoff as responsible for wrongdoing. He said his son wouldn’t be commenting. Markus Jooste, ex-CEO  The company found its former CEO and some members of his close family
 were affiliated to seven entities that should have been disclosed as 
related parties when the retailer entered into transactions with them. 
One of those businesses was Upington, which was also linked to Wiese. Others included Mayfair Speculators, Lodestone Brands, Kluh Investments and Erfvest Properties. Lawyers that have acted on behalf of Jooste didn’t immediately 
respond to an emailed request for comment. Jooste didn’t immediately 
respond to a message sent to a mobile phone he’s used in the past. Bruno Steinhoff and Angela Kruger-Steinhoff Bruno, the retailer’s retired founder, and his daughter Angela, who 
remains a director, were linked to Bruno Steinhoff Beratungs- und 
Verwaltungs GmbH and Steinhoff Familienholding GmbH. Any agreements with
 those two entities should have been noted as related-party 
transactions, according to Steinhoff. Bruno Steinhoff and Angela Kruger-Steinhoff didn’t immediately respond to emailed requests for comments. Jayendra Naidoo, former director  Lancaster 101, Lancaster 102 and Lancaster
 Electricity Solutions were linked to Naidoo, who was 
appointed to Steinhoff’s supervisory board in March 2017. They were 
material-related parties due to historic deals that took place between 
them and the retailer, according to the annual report. Naidoo said by 
phone he didn’t have further comment. Steinhoff contracts related to key management personnel 