Former president of the Black Business Council, Danisa Baloyi and tree co-accused appeared in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court in Johannesburg on Wednesday on charges of fraud and theft, according to the Directorate for Priority Police Investigations. Baloyi’s appearance follows an investigation the Hawks conducted in 2018 into the allegation she arranged for a R5m donation from Airports Company South Africa to be funelled into the bank accounts of businesses owned by the co-accused. The Hawks said the R5m from ACSA was given on the understanding that it was a fundraising donation for a "radical economic transformation campaign". Baloyi was suspended as BBC president in December 2017. The council is an independent body that lobbies for economic transformation and inclusive industries. Earnings Review: Quality improving in the past 1-2 years While auto sales have been muted, Arun Thukral, MD & CEO of Axis Securities shares his views on the IT sector, private banks posting profits and hope for good growth from the FMCG space. According to the hawks, her co-accused Bibi Hawa Khan and Abubaker Khan owned a group known as Merit Energy, which received the R5m donation. The money was then allegedly transferred to Incentive Driven Marketing, which is owned by the final accused Dominic Ntsele. Hawks spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mulamu told Fin24 on Thursday morning that Baloyi misled ACSA into believing that the money would go towards the company’s corporate social responsibility initiatives. However, Mulamu said, there was no fundraising at all. "This means that money was not utilised for the fundraising it was given for. The money was offered under social responsibility incentive to the BBC. But instead of submitting the account under BBC, she submitted the details of Merit Energy, claiming they were nominated to run the fundraising. But there was no fundraising," said Mulamu. Asked about the chances of recovering the funds, Mulamu said the priority crime investigating unit would study the case docket extensively and consider their options. The accused were granted bail of R5 000 each. They are due to return to the dock in early July.