The last time US payroll
forecasts were this low, hurricanes had slammed the country in 2017,
temporarily closing businesses. Or go back to 2013 when there was a federal
government shutdown. But for the September jobs report
due Friday, Wall Street economists see a more persistent storm at play: The
trade war and manufacturing recession. Those factors are starting to permeate
the economy at a time when companies are already struggling with a shrinking
pool of qualified workers. The combination of forces has
pushed down the median estimate for private payrolls to a gain of just 130 000
last month. That’s the weakest projection heading into a jobs report in seven
years, outside of months affected by events such as major storms or the
shutdown. Estimates for total non-farm payrolls are higher, at 148 000, because
of an expected boost from temporary census hiring. A reading that’s even weaker than
predicted would probably boost investor expectations that the Federal Reserve
will cut interest rates October 30 for a third straight meeting and potentially
again in December, completing a reversal of all four hikes from 2018. It may
also force Fed officials to rein in their assessment of the labor market, which
they’ve labeled as "strong" in policy statements as recently as
September. For us President Donald Trump, who
has repeatedly pinned any economic weakness on the central bank, a sluggish
labor market could pose a threat to his reelection in 2020. Currently the US is
on track to add about 1.9 million jobs this year, which would be the smallest
gain since 2010 and down from 2.7 million in 2018. US stocks slumped 3% in the last
two days amid dour economic data. On Tuesday, the Institute for Supply
Management said its factory index fell deeper into contraction in September
with the worst reading in a decade, while the employment gauge hit a three-year
low. Meanwhile, companies’ hiring was the slowest in three months, according to
a report from private data provider ADP. 'Big ball of negativity' "It’s starting to roll into
one big ball of negativity," said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto. "You just don’t have the supply of workers out
there, but now it’s starting to become worse." "If the company’s dealing
with the manufacturing slowdown, trade with China issues, weaker demand, it
falls into your hiring expectations: "If we’re not going to get that many
orders, we don’t need as many people,’" Lee said. Other indicators already point to
a slowing economy and weaker growth ahead. Companies are pulling back spending
as tariffs weigh on business decisions and global demand slides. The August
gain in consumer spending was the smallest in six months. So far, manufacturing has been
hit hardest, so investors and economists will be keenly watching the September
report to show whether the pain has spread more broadly in the labour market -
whose relative strength has helped keep the record-long US expansion from
turning into a recession. "There’s much more scrutiny
on the non-farm payrolls and looking to see: Is the US economy slowing down with
the rest of the world?" said Zhiwei Ren, a portfolio manager at Penn
Mutual Asset Management, which oversees $28bn. "In the last few months, it
hasn’t been a great focus of the market because the US-China trade talks, and
Fed policy has been more important. But now people are starting to question the
strength of the US economy." The recent job numbers already
suggest that employers are either having difficulty filling positions, are
hiring fewer people due to weaker demand, or both.