The World Bank has revised down South Africa’s growth
prospects for this year and the next two years, citing continued policy
uncertainty and the financial burden presented by Eskom to the fiscus. According to a report on economic outlook for Africa
released on Wednesday, the economy is expected to grow by 0.8% in 2019, the
same rate as in 2018. The rate is 0.5 percentage point lower than the April
forecast. The report says growth is expected to rise to 1.0 % in 2020, which is
0.7 percentage point lower than in April. Growth is seen reaching 1.3% in 2021, 0.5 percentage point
lower than the April estimate. "These large downward revisions reflect the sharp
slowdown in real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2019, low investor
sentiment, and persisting policy uncertainty, including whether a solution
could be found for Eskom, fiscal slippages would be averted, and structural
reforms would be undertaken," said the report. It noted that a combination of power cuts, low business confidence, and political uncertainty
prolonged the decline in investment and dampened consumption and export growth. Weak recovery In September, ratings agency Moody's cut down the country's
growth forecast for 2019 from 1% in June to 0.7%, because of slow pace in
policy implementation and low investor confidence. South Africa’s fragile economic growth has faced headwinds
from different directions, including the ongoing challenges of high
unemployment and inequality. The National Treasury forecast growth of 1.5% in the
February budget, and a new estimate is likely to be announced in the mid-term
budget later this month. Impact on Sub-Saharan Africa Average growth in Sub-Saharan Africa was expected to rise
modestly, from 2.5% in 2018 to 2.6% in 2019. This would reach 3.1% in 2020 and
3.2% in 2021. Excluding Nigeria, South Africa and Angola, growth in the
rest of sub-Saharan Africa is projected at 4.0 % in 2019. "Africa’s economies are not immune to what is happening
in the rest of the world, and this is reflected in the subdued growth rates
across the region," said Albert Zeufack, Chief Economist for Africa at the
World Bank. The World Bank added that recovery in these countries, which
are the region’s three largest economies, "has remained weak and is
weighing on the region’s prospects". South Africa's overall fiscal
deficit is expected to increase significantly, it said. 