For the third time, President Cyril Ramaphosa has extended
the deadline for the final report of the Commission of Inquiry into allegations
of impropriety regarding Public Investment Corporation (PIC). In a statement, the presidency said that the extension was
granted upon the request of the commissioner of the inquiry, judge Lex Mpati. The commission was appointed by Ramaphosa in October 2017, and
it was supposed to submit its final report by April this year. Ramaphosa extended
that deadline to July 31th, and then to end of October. It has now been extended
to December 15th. Over the course of eight months, the
commission heard from 77 witnesses, including former PIC boss Dan Matjila who told
the commission he was ousted
for political reasons. The commission received details of several disastrous PIC investments, including in Steinhoff and Erin Energy, which is linked to former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene's
son. Several witnesses also told the commission that the R4.3bn the PIC paid for
tech firm AYO was far too much. The PIC invested in the IT company in late
2017. Former chief investment officer of AYO Technology Solutions, Siphiwe
Nodwele, who resigned in August 2018, said the IT company was valued
between R700m and R1bn – and not R14.8bn as the PIC
determined. AYO is linked to Sekunjalo Group, of which businessman Dr Iqbal
Survé is the executive chairman. In April, the Mpati commission heard that millions
of rands from the PIC investment into AYO went to two companies linked to
Survé the day after it was listed on the JSE. ·      
Subscribe to
Fin24’s newsletter here A war of words broke out between Mpati and Survé, after Survé
accused public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan of trying to influence the
commission of inquiry against Survé’s companies. In a
strongly worded statement, Mpati lashed out against Survé, saying that the accusations
are “part of an on-going attempt to discredit the work of the Commission, the
integrity of the Commissioners and an endeavour to influence its findings. “The
Commission will not tolerate interference in its work from any quarter. Nor
will it countenance attempts to influence or intimidate it, irrespective of who
may attempt to do so," Mpati said. "The
Commission will continue with its work without fear or favour and reserves the
right to take action, in accordance with the regulations, against any party who
seeks to interfere in its work.” Read: Judge rubbishes Survé's claim that he is Gordhan's pal The PIC manages R2trn in public funds and invests on behalf of the
Government Employee Pension Fund.