Government will soon make an announcement on dealing with debt at power utility Eskom, President Cyril Ramaphosa said. The president on Monday delivered the opening address at the Financial Times Africa Summit in London. The summit is a gathering of investors, business people and decision makers. During a question and answer session following his address, Ramaphosa shed light on the crisis at the debt-ridden power utility. Responding to a question about government's plans to reassure ratings agency Moody's about reforming Eskom, ahead of its verdict on the country's credit rating in November, Ramaphosa acknowledged that Eskom is "dogged" by "huge debt". Eskom's debt levels surpass R450bn. "We will make announcements on how to deal with debt in the next few days. We hope Moody's will take note," Ramaphosa said. Government is working on "innovative ideas" to deal with Eskom debt, he added. Ramaphosa said the collection of tariffs had weakened over time, but new strategies and programmes are being developed to deal with tariff collections, he explained. WATCH | Prince Harry and Meghan Markle meet President Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Tshepo Motsepe welcomed the Duke and Duchess of Sussex at the official residence Mahlamba Ndlopfu in Pretoria on Wednesday. Announcements on executive appointments at Eskom, including that of chief executive officer will also be made soon, and the board will be "strengthened", Ramaphosa confirmed. "I think Moody's and others will be happy with the announcements made," Ramaphosa said. He also commented that announcements will be made on the energy strategy. "We will deal with that and provide a clearer picture of how to move forward with energy," he said as he explained there is global pressure on countries which traditionally rely on coal-fired power stations for energy. Bloomberg recently reported that government is considering a R160bn green fund to decommission coal-fired power stations and push renewable energy solutions. During his address he lamented that the power utility was struggling with liquidity problems and operational challenges. But there is a process in place to strengthen governance at Eskom, improve debt collection and increase energy availability and plant performance. He said the planned unbundling of Eskom into three entities - generation, transmission and distribution- is similar to what other countries have done. Private partnerships with SAA The president also commented on moves at the national carrier, SAA. "SAA is one of those SOEs (state-owned enterprises) that has relied on lots of bailouts," Ramaphosa told the summit. He confirmed that government is open to private sector participation at SOEs, like SAA. "At SAA we are open to a strategic equity partner," he added. Positive drill results at Cpler Saddle 27 Sep 2019 - Alacer Gold Corporation (ASX:AQG), (TSX:ASR) have announced positive results of the Cpler Saddle. Qantass CFO to move to CEO of international business role 01 May 2019 - Qantas (ASX:QAN) is set to see some key changes to its leadership team with currant Chief Financial Officer, Tino La Spina moving to become Chief Executive Officer of Qantas International. Santos (ASX:STO) aquires ConocoPhillips northern Australia assets 14 Oct 2019 - Santos (ASX:STO) is set to acquire ConocoPhillips northern Australian assets which includes the Darwin liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant and the Barossa gas venture off the coast for US$1.39 billion. I Don't Lie," Dassault CEO Eric Trappier Responds To Rahul Gandhi Dassault Aviation Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Eric Trappier in an exclusive interview to ANI rubbished allegations made by Congress Party president Rahul Gandhi that the former lied about the details of the Dassault- Reliance Joint Venture (JV) ... Air New Zealand (ASX:AIZ) appoints Walmart CEO 11 Oct 2019 - Air New Zealand (ASX: AIZ) has appointed Walmart CEO Greg Foran. Prestige Estates Jump 22% In A Week Venkat K Narayan, Chief Executive Officer, Prestige Estates said that FY19 has been strong so far and the company is on track to meet guidance. The company is close to handing over nearly 10,000 homes and the GST Council move to GST on under-const... Malawi: former President Banda presents candidacy for May vote Malawi's former president Joyce Banda states her intention to run as candidate in the country's elections this May. She has chosen Jerry Jana, former Chief Executive Officer of the Malawi Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as her running mate. Ted Baker CEO quits after misconduct allegations Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of British fashion retailer Ted Baker Plc, resigned on Monday (March 4) following misconduct allegations related to his hugging of business colleagues. Saskia O'Donoghue reports Santos reports (ASX:STO) strong Caley reservoir flow 08 Oct 2019 - Oil and gas giant Santos (ASX:STO) has announced that the initial flow test of the Caley reservoir in Western Australia has confirmed the main oil pool in the field is capable of producing flow rates at the higher end of pre-drill ex... Pancontinental Oil & Gas NL (ASX:PCL) targeting big oil off Namibia 28 Aug 2018 - Pancontinental Oil & Gas NL Limited (ASX:PCL) Executive Director & CEO, John Begg, provides an update on the company's offshore Namibia Project, PEL 37, ahead of first drilling in September. NAB Chairman and CEO resign 08 Feb 2019 - National Australia Bank (ASX:NAB) yesterday saw both their chairman and CEO resign after a difficult week. Kathmandu sales below management expectations 03 Jan 2019 - Kathmandu (ASX:KMD) sales for Australia and New Zealand during December have been below management expectations and the prior year. Japanese Fashion Retail Giant UNIQLO Enters Indian Market As UNIQLO makes its India debut, NDTV spoke to UNIQLO India Chief Executive Officer Tomohiko Sei on what is the companys strategy to capture Indian market. Blackmores appoint Marcus Blackmore as interim CEO 20 Mar 2019 - Health supplement company Blackmores (ASX:BKL) today announced that Executive Director Marcus Blackmore will step in as interim Chief Executive Officer effective from the 1st of April this year. Evans Dixon appoints Chief Executive Officer 08 Jul 2019 - Evans Dixon (ASX:ED1) has today announced the appointment of Peter Anderson as its new Chief Executive Officer. The Reject Shop's CEO quits after guidance is slashed 23 May 2019 - The Reject Shop's (ASX:TRS) chief executive Ross Sudano has quit after the retailer announced store closures and slashed its full-year guidance for a full year net profit after tax of between $3.1 million and $4.1 million to a curren... NAB CEO, chairman to quit after scathing misconduct inquiry report The chief executive and chairman of Australia's fourth-largest bank NAB are quitting, the biggest scalps following a major inquiry that leveled blistering criticism at the country's financial sector for widespread misconduct. Adriatic Metals appoints a new MD and CEO 18 Sep 2019 - Adriatic Metals (ASX:ADT) has appointed Paul Cronin as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Arrest over Landmark White hack ends harrowing period: CEO Landmark White acting chief executive Timothy Rabbitt speaks to media in Sydney outside the company's offices about the arrest of a man over the unauthorised access of a more than 170,000 data records which were uploaded onto the dark web and inte... BP names Bernard Looney as CEO, Dudley to leave in 2020 BP on Friday appointed head of upstream operations Bernard Looney as chief executive to succeed Bob Dudley when he retires next year after leading the oil and gas company back to growth from near collapse in 2010. Ciara Lee reports Arrest over Landmark White hack ends harrowing period: CEO Landmark White acting chief executive Timothy Rabbitt speaks to media in Sydney outside the companies offices about the arrest of a man over the unauthorised access of a more than 170,000 data records which were uploaded onto the dark web and inte... Ridley Corporation to close Murray Bridge feedmill 25 Spe 2019 - Animal nutrition supplier Ridley Corporation (ASX:RIC) is to close its Murray Bridge feedmill in South Australia next month. Senior management personnel moves for Mount Gibson Iron 19 Oct 2018 - Mount Gibson Iron (ASX:MGX) has appointed two new senior management personnel following the recent move of former Chief Financial Officer Peter Kerr as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Where'd the stocks go? NASDAQ CEO on Market Shrink The stock market is a much less crowded party than it used to be. NASDAQ CEO Adena Friedman says these days more companies are choosing to stay private longer -- a trend that could threaten financial equality. CBA CEO tells MPs they are addressing their past failings 08 Mar 2019 - The Chief Executive Officer of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (ASX:CBA) Matt Comyn has been answering questions in the House of Representatives economics committee this morning saying the bank is on track to tackle issues. Essar Steel Resolution To Come Through Soon, Will Set Precedent: VG Kannan, IBA VG Kannan, Chief Executive Officer of Indian Banking Association (IBA), is hopeful that the Essar Steel resolution will come through soon. Talking to BTVI, he said the latest IBC amendments are sufficient to handle the Essar Steel case. According ... Continue to remain optimistic based on bookings & demand: C Vijayakumar, HCL Tech C Vijayakumar, chief executive officer of HCL Technologies, said the company delivered a blockbuster performance with double-digit constant currency revenue growth. He said new Mode-2 services delivered their strongest growth. He said the company ... RRS Summer Series - RBR Group Chief Executive Officer for RBR Group, Richard Carcenac, spoke recently at the RRS Summer Series event in Sydney about their work in Mozambique. RBR Group Limited is an ASX listed company established in 2007 and based in Perth, Western Australia. ... #TheDailyBrief @ Boardroom.Media - with Judith Fox, Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Shareh The Daily Brief speaks with Judith Fox, Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Shareholders' Association. George discusses The Royal Commission, education of retail investors, AMP and ESG investing. Instagram's co-founders are leaving Facebook Instagram co-founders Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger have resigned as chief executive officer and chief technical officer of the photo-sharing app owned by Facebook Inc, with the pair giving scant explanation. Cash Converters International employ a new Chief Executive Officer 06 Dec 2018 - Cash Converters International (ASX:CCV) have announced a new Chief Executive Officer - Brendan White. CEO Andrew Wilkinson to leave ALE Property Group 07 Aug 2019 - Andrew Wilkinson, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director ALE Property Group (ASX:LEP), has indicated after 16 years with the Group that he is look to pursue new challenges. Regis Healthcare appoints Lisa Mellors as CEO and MD 20 May 2019 - Regis Healthcare (ASX:REG) has today announced the appointment of Linda Mellors as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director. Michael Hill International CEO stands down due to illness 21 Sep 2018 - The Board of jewellery chain Michael Hill International (ASX:MHJ) has announced that CEO Phil Taylor will step down after being diagnosed with a health issue and deciding to resign and focus on his recovery. Five day streak comes to an end: ASX closes 0.5% lower 22 Jan 2019 - The ASX closed 0.5% lower today  the first negative close in the last five. There is slower growth in China as the trade war rambles on with the US. Also in the US consumer confidence is taking a dip as the government suffers from o... Business conditions fell 3 points in Feb: ASX tracking 0.4% higher at noon 12 Mar 2019 - The ASX rose after the open and is now tracking 0.4% at noon. Resources engineering company WorleyParsons (ASX:WOR) recovered after yesterday's dip with a 3% rise this morning. Logistics software company Wisetech Global (ASX:WTC) saw... Commonwealth Bank see cash profit for the year down 4.7% to $8.49b 07 Aug 2019 - The Commonwealth Bank (ASX:CBA) has reported an 8.1 per cent fall in its full year profit with statutory NPAT at $8.571 million compared to $9.4 billion last year. Seven Group Holdings operational performance lifts profits 20 Feb 2019 - Seven Group Holdings (ASX:SVW) has announced its half year results for FY19 with revenue and profit both higher compared to the year earlier period. WorleyParsons awarded new Thaioil contract 29 May 2019 - The Thai Oil Public Company has awarded a services contract for its oil refinery in Thailand to WorleyParsons (ASX:WOR). Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield lifts earnings guidance 01 Aug 2019 - Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield (ASX:URW) lifted its full-year earnings guidance after reporting strong first-half growth in tenant sales at its flagship European and American retail centres. GPT to purchase five Logistics assets in Sydney for $212 million 27 May 2019 - The GPT Group (ASX:GPT) has today announced that it has exchanged contracts for the purchase of five prime Logistics properties for a total amount of $212 million. Overstock shares surge after CEO quits Overstock shares surged 9% on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Patrick Byrne resigned, saying distraction and fallout related to his involvement in a Federal Bureau of Investigation Russian espionage probe made it difficult for him to lead the online retailer. Adelaide Brighton appoints Nick Miller CEO 18 Oct 2018 - Adelaide Brighton (ASX:ABC) has today announced the appointment of Nick Miller as CEO and successor to Martin Brydon. Jet Airways Deputy CEO Amit Agarwal Steps Down, Cites "Personal Reasons" Jet Airways said on Tuesday that its deputy chief executive and chief financial officer Amit Agarwal has resigned. The now-grounded airline said that Mr Agarwal stepped down due to personal reasons. Shares in Jet Airways declined more than 12 per ... GE replaces CEO, shares soar General Electric CEO John Flannery abruptly stepped down on Monday. And as Fred Katayama reports, the conglomerate is taking a roughly $23 billion charge. EXPLAINER: Gallop to step down as FFA CEO David Gallop will quit his job as Football Federation Australia's chief executive at the end of the year. Telecom Italia gets new CEO but power struggle rages on Telecom Italia has appointed Luigi Gubitosi as chief executive, in a move seen as portending a more aggressive shake-up at the phone group and prompting his predecessor to call for a shareholder vote on the strategy turn. Nissan CEO, execs were overpaid: source Nissan Motor was embroiled in another scandal over executive pay on Thursday (August 5) after Chief Executive Hiroto Saikawa admitted to being overpaid in violation of an internal scheme.