Minister Angie Motshekga, while addressing the South
African Democratic Teacher’s Union (SATDU) national congress, introduced a
draft framework that would see grade 9 as one of the exit points in the
schooling curriculum. The framework details that Grade 9 graduands
would be eligible to receive a General Education Certificate (GEC), creating a
pathway for pupils who would rather go through a technical or vocational
training stream, instead of the "academic route" at a university, for
example. The minister, in her interview, stated that the
academic route had historically received all the attention, and this did not necessarily
address the issue of a 50% dropout rate of learners before they complete
matric. She also stated that countries like Germany invested more resources
towards technical and vocational learning institutions. The
challenge that this draft framework poses is that: -         
It
anchors on a comparison with countries that have a different academic history
and economic structure than ours; -         
It
proposed GEC as an inadvertent solution (nay option) to the high schooling
dropout rates; -         
It
fails to contextualise the framework in context of it being an investment
towards the acquisition of "critical skills". There are
indeed a few countries where a dual system (practical and classroom-based
learning) of vocational training has been successful including the likes of
Germany, Switzerland, Denmark and Austria, among others. Germany has an
approximate 1.3 million apprentices in training every year, according to the Federal
Statistical Office (Destatis). In 2016, almost
half of the German population (47%) had a vocational training qualification. Roughly
500 000 vocational jobs are on offer every year, where 68% of the learners
who go into a dual learning track get
jobs immediately after training. If these are the numbers associated with
vocational training, then why might this not necessarily be a good fit for
South Africa? In these
countries, the learners are said to spend three or four days at the company
providing their vocational training and one or two weekdays in class (Berufsschule).
The said companies participate in the design and review of the curricula and
examinations to ensure it meets their skills needs and is governed by training
regulations that are benchmarked countrywide. This ensures
that the skills quality and efficacy offered by these programmes can be accepted
and respected by both public and private sector companies. In our local
context, companies do not meaningfully participate neither design nor
examinations in TVET and similar vocational learning institutions. As such,
these GECs are likely to be worthless papers in the eyes of corporate South
Africa. More
interestingly, in Germany (the case study in question) these programmes are
administered under the ministry of economic affairs and energy. This suggests
that such a programme would need to be aligned to the economic growth and
development plans of the economy and would need to closely align to the
critical skills conversation. In Germany, the vocational schools partner with
more than 430 000 companies, with more than 80% of large companies said to
hire apprentices. What is
necessary in a South African context is for policy makers to contextualise education
skills development to the needs of the economy, taking into account the
structural constraints facing the economy. For
example, such vocational skills may be more relevant in construction than they
may be in financial services. So taking into account that construction has had
four consecutive quarters of negative growth having shed more than 150 000
jobs in the first quarter of this year, while business services experience
quarters of growth, it holds true that a vocational programme geared towards
getting more welders (for e.g.) may not necessarily be as skills acquisitive as
it is in Germany. The
argument I make here does not suggest that vocational training has no value
for the South African economy, rather that we alongside policy makers, unions
and business ought to solve first how we can tailor such programmes to our
economy and its needs. In its current format, the draft framework fails to
address the weaknesses in our education system and is unlikely to solve the
unemployment and skills issue facing the economy either. Sifiso Skenjana is founder and financial economist at AFRA Consultants. He specialises in economic policy research, investment strategy and advisory services. He is currently pursuing his PhD. Views expressed are his own. Follow him on Twitter: @sifiso_skenjana 