Zimbabwe has cancelled a US$400m investment deal
for the National Railways of Zimbabwe, which had been awarded to a consortium
that included South Africa's Transnet and the Diaspora Infrastructure
Development Group. In 2017, the government of Zimbabwe awarded the $400m tender for the revival of
NRZ to Transnet and DIDG. However, on Wednesday, Harare said the tender had
since been cancelled. "Government took a position to issue a new
tender. "If any of the former members want to compete,
they are still eligible to make bids and will be judged fairly," Nick
Mangwana, permanent secretary for Zimbabwe’s Information Ministry said in a
statement. The decision to re-issue the tender was mainly due
to technical differences and disagreements on how it would be funded and concluded. According to the government of Zimbabwe, 13 locomotives, 200 wagons and six
passenger coaches were delivered by the consortium under a Framework Agreement
as well as a separate Interim Solution Agreement pending conclusion of the
final investment deal. Nothing materialised It has also emerged that due diligence for the
investment deal was concluded in October 2018, but nothing had
materialised within the timeframe prescribed under the Framework
Agreement. "Government granted a conditional extension on
March 21, 2019, for a period of six months. "Part of the conditions was that the
consortium was to provide proof of funds and shareholder approval before August
14, 2019. DIDG presented a funding structure based on funds sourced
internationally, which excluded Transnet," explained Mangwana. Further to this, the government of Zimbabwe had
determined that "the exclusion of Transnet had a legal impact on the
tender" which had been awarded to the two companies as a consortium. It
was not immediately clear when the new tendering process would begin. In a letter to Fin24 in July this year, Transnet
said it was incorrect that it was "intending to invest in NRZ",
despite having been part of the consortium that tendered and won a bid to
recapitalise the Zimbabwean railways parastatal. Risks "Transnet, together with its partners in
Zimbabwe, intends creating a separate entity to operate rail freight logistics
on a concession basis from the NRZ. The proposed structure will enable NRZ to
financially benefit in two ways, through a dividend and as well as a royalty
fee which will serve as annuity income," Transnet said in July. Zimbabwe auditor general Mildred Chiri in July
painted a gloomy picture of the state of financial affairs for NRZ, and flagged
further risks to its going concern status. "The financial statements do not present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Railways as at
December 31, 2018 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the
year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs)," said Chiri in her audit report on the company. This was because the NRZ was in a net current
liability position of US$286.4m as at the end of December 2018, compared to
US$256.5m a year earlier. It also incurred a net loss of US$43.7m during the
period under review, which "indicate[d] the existence of a material
uncertainty that may cast significant doubt over the Railways’ ability to
continue" as a going concern.