On October 9, 2018, former Reserve Bank governor Tito Mboweni was appointed minister of finance, replacing Nhlanhla Nene. Mboweni, at the time, said he had counselled President Ramaphosa to chose a younger minister, but the president was adamant."I began jotting down names of people he should think about. Then I was told that the mandate of the meeting was not to seek advice. So, advice was out of the question." On Tuesday, a year and two weeks after he was sworn in, Mboweni addressed was in Parliament for a discussion around a R59bn lifeline for cash-strapped power utility Eskom. "I joined this house in October last year, so maybe you should have said happy anniversary to me," he started. The minister said that since assuming office he had learned that the minister finance is "burdened" with having to find resources for Eskom, SAA, South Africa Express, Denel and Alexkor, fund SA's large state wage bill, and find money for to ageing infrastructure and more. Give and take All this, he said, had to take place "within the context of declining tax revenue due to low economic growth". According to Momentum Investments, based on current tax receipts and expected VAT refunds, the SA Revenue Service would be collecting "around R50bn" less tax than projected in the 2018 Budget. The minister, who will present his second mini budget next week on Wednesday, said that when he hears MPs declaring Eskom must be funded, he asks from where he must take the money. "There needs to be a give and take, you can't have everything at the same time." The minister did not provide specifics about further funding proposals for Eskom or plans to reduce its debt burden of about R450bn. He is expected to speak about ways put the utility on a sustainable path at the mini budget. Complex problems need complex answers Problems at the national power utility were not just financial, he said, and complex issues meant complex solutions were needed. These included appointing the right people as executives and board members, and holding them to account. As he had done in the past he asked Parliamentarians to help create a culture of payment. Municipal debt owed to Eskom has grown to R25.1bn. "Go mobilise your people to render unto Eskom what belongs to Eskom as a law-abiding citizen." Investec completes $84 million placement 27 Sep 2019 - Investec Australia Property Fund (ASX:IAP) has announced the successful completion of its fully underwritten institutional placement to raise $84 million. WATCH: Mixed reactions to Tito Mboweni's 2018 mini budget speech Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. SBI Revises Interest Rates On Savings Deposits, Fixed Deposits State Bank of India or SBI, country's largest lender, on Wednesday announced a reduction in its savings deposits interest rate. It also announced a reduction in interest rates on term deposits or fixed deposits (FDs) across select maturities. The ... WATCH - Nene out, Mboweni in: here's everything you need to know President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday afternoon that former Reserve Bank Governor Tito Mboweni would be the new finance minister. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. South Africa's Eskom sees $1.4 bln loss in 2019/20 South Africa's struggling power utility Eskom said on Tuesday it expects to post a loss of $1.4 billion in the 2019/20 financial year. WATCH: 'We'll get it right in year or two' - Gordhan on Eskom Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan says they understand the frustration loadshedding has put on South Africans and promised that Eskom will get it right in the next few years. Pizza Express hires advisers ahead of crunch talks over GBP655m debts Pizza Express has hired financial advisers ahead of crunch talks with creditors over the restaurant group's soaring debts.The restaurant chain has hired advisers at corporate finance firm Houlihan Lokey to prepare for debt talks with creditors a... Foreign Portfolio Investors Pulled Out Over 6,200 Crores In Just 2 Weeks Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have withdrawn over Rs. 6,200 crore in just the first two weeks of October. FPIs are essentially those who invest in securities and other financial assets in an another country. FPIs pulling out a significant amo... Downer EDI $200M medium term debt 27 Sep 2019 - Integrate services provider, Downer EDI (ASX:DOW) Group Finance, priced an issuance of $200 million medium term debt instruments at a fixed rate of 3.7 per cent. Cashwerkz (ASX:CWZ) bringing banks and investors closer together 23 Oct 2019 - Cashwerkz Limited (ASX:CWZ) Executive Director, Craig Swanger talks about the company's platform, the benefit it provides for both banks and investors, FY19 results and outlook. US investor and French banker attend house arrest hearing in Moscow US investor Michael Calvey and French banker Philippe Delpal attend their hearing concerning the extension of their house arrest. Delpal, a senior executive in investment firm Baring Vostok, was arrested in February together with company chief Mic... Sonic Healthcare (ASX:SHL) to raise US550 million of debt funding 10 Oct 2019 - Sonic Healthcare (ASX:SHL) has priced US$550 million of notes in the United States private placement market. Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ) see 14% decline in FY19 cash earnings 17 Oct 2019 - Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ) reports their financial year 2019 cash earnings after tax of $320 million, is down 14 per cent on financial year 2018. MyState (ASX:MYS) has appointed Gary Dickson as Interim CFO 07 Oct 2019 - Banking and wealth management group MyState (ASX:MYS) has appointed Gary Dickson as Interim CFO. Vocus Group (ASX:VOC) appoints Optus CFO Nitesh Naidoo 23 Oct 2019 - Vocus Group (ASX:VOC) has today appointed new chief financial officer Nitesh Naidoo who currently works as Vice President of Corporate Finance for Optus. Netlinkz (ASX:NET) enters into an agreement to acquire SSI Pacific 23 Oct 2019 - Netlinkz (ASX:NET) has entered into an agreement to acquire Security Software International (SSI) Pacific. Marley Spoon secures funding from Woolworths 26 Sep 2019 - Meal kit provider Marley Spoon (ASX:MMM) has approved structured debt transactions with two of its existing investors, amounting to $8 million in aggregate. Banksters If HSBC were a country, it would be the fifth world economic power. From tax evasion to money laundering for the mafia and manipulation of currency, "this bank had done everything bad that a bank can possibly do." Who would dare attack it? Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with Professor Matthew Ocran Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. Krakatoa Resources (ASX:KTA) exercises option to acquire Belgravia Project 11 Oct 2019 - Krakatoa Resources (ASX:KTA) has exercised its option to acquire the Belgravia Project from Locksley Holdings. Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with RMB economist Mpho Tsebe Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon.Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha sat down with RMB economist Mpho Tsebe, to discuss. No end date for South African power cuts -minister South Africa's Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Tuesday that he cannot say yet when rolling blackouts will end, as power utility Eskom struggles with capacity shortages. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges. Mini Budget 2018: Bheki Ntshalintshali Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. The Biggest Stories Of October 18, 2019 Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram, his son and MP Karti, former IAS officers, Peter Mukherjea charged by the CBI in the INX media case; PM Modi's last rally in Maharashtra ahead of elections says those who destroyed the economy, ruined the ban... The Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ) appoints a new COF/COO 10 Oct 2019 - The Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ) has appointed Ewen Stafford as its Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire Look for a "cosmetic" trade deal - Cardillo Beijing and Washington will likely notch a "cosmetic" trade deal, says Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo. But he recommends investors buy gold to hedge risks. WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. Seven West (ASX:SWM) to sell Pacific Magazines 21 Oct 2019 - Seven West (ASX:SWM) has this morning confirmed reports it will sell Pacific Magazines to Bauer (Bower) Media for $40 million. Isolated At Anti-Terror FATF Meet, Pak Close To "Dark Grey" List: Report Pakistan is on the verge of strong action by the international terror financing watchdog FATF and the country may be put in the ''Dark Grey'' list, the last warning to improve.  Officials attending the ongoing plenary of the Financial Action Task ... WATCH: Did Mboweni live up to the hype surrounding him, Abdul Azeez Davids explains Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. GPT Group to up stake in Darling Park, Cockle Bay Wharf & raise $800m 19 June 2019 - The GPT Group (ASX:GPT) has launched a $850 million capital raise as part of ramping up its property purchases. It also plans to increase stake in Darling Park, Cockle Bay Wharf to 75%. South Africa state firm departures could drag out Ramaphosa's reforms President Cyril Ramaphosa's mission to fix two of South Africa's most troubled state companies, power firm Eskom and South African Airways, could take longer than planned after their chief executives quit within a week of each other. ShowBiz Minute: Hussle, Avenatti, Box Office Officials say rapper Nipsey Hussle shot and killed at 33; After shocking NY arrest, Michael Avenatti faces court in California; Live-action 'Dumbo' struggles to soar at box office. Centuria to snap up 80 Flinders Street Adelaide for $127 million 22 Jul 2019 - Centuria Capital Group (ASX:CNI) has exchanged unconditional contracts to acquire Adelaides 80 Flinders Street office building for $127 million, generating a new fund for Centurias unlisted division. We only have ourselves to blame - Eskom COO Eskom chief operations officer Jan Oberholzer says the power utility only has itself to blame for the lapse of a contract for early detection of maintenance failures. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week'  Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. At least 14 confirmed dead in Kenya attack Gunmen blasted their way into a hotel and office complex in the Kenyan capital on Tuesday, killing at least 14 people and sending workers diving under desks to escape an attack claimed by Somalia-based Islamist group al Shabaab. Authorities: crop-dusters collide, 2 pilots killed Two small crop-dusting planes collided in midair and crashed into a Northern California rice field Wednesday, killing both pilots, according to the Sutter County Sheriff's Office. CPSE ETF opens on March 19 Government officials have said that March 19 will remain open for non-retail investors and will remain open for three days till March 22. Here is Meghna Mittal with more details. At least six killed in corruption protests in Haiti At least six people have been killed in Haiti during protests over alleged embezzlement by government officials Scores killed as fierce storm hits northern and western India At least 78 people have been killed and many injured in a storm that's lashed four districts government officials said on Thursday. IMF Bentham (ASX:IMF) announces acquisition of Omni Bridgeway, $139m capital raising 15 Oct 2019 - IMF Bentham (ASX:IMF) will finance its proposed $141 million acquisition of European litigation funder Omni Bridgeway via a capital raising. Bendigo and Adelaide Bank (ASX:BEN) appoint new Company Secretary. 14 Oct 2019 - Bendigo and Adelaide Bank (ASX:BEN) have appointed Ms Carmen Lunderstedt as Company Secretary.