The
tragic loss of the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 MAX this March raised serious
questions – including about certification in Africa, Chris Zweigenthal, CEO of
the Airline Association of Southern Africa said on Friday. "Historically, Africa’s
safety record was dire, but remarkable progress was made over the past decade
and it should no longer hold us back," he said at AASA’s annual general
meeting hosted by Air Austral in Reunion. "The years 2017 and 2018
were unblemished by any fatalities or hull losses involving scheduled airline
operations in Africa. "However, the tragic loss of the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing
737 MAX not only brought this run to an end, but has raised serious questions
about aircraft design, technology and certification, pilot training and
recruiting standards and human factors on the flight deck across the board." In the view of Zweingenthal, it
also prompted a worldwide crisis of confidence in the airworthiness
certification model that has been in place and served the industry for decades. "Our entire industry needs
certainty from the safety regulators in each state, on how they will recognise
airworthiness certification programmes run by authorities in other countries,"
said Zweigenthal. "This is of particular
importance in countries, including those in Africa and our region – which until
now – have relied on their counterparts in the US, Europe, Canada and Brazil
where the major airframe and engine manufacturers are based." He cautioned that aviation in
Africa cannot have "a patchwork situation" where commercial airlines
and engines are deemed safe and fit for purpose in one jurisdiction, but not in
others. "Trust must be restored.
Changes to the safety, regulatory and airspace management systems are also
required to accommodate the increasing fleet of unmanned airborne systems as
they take on more commercial air transport roles," he said. "Aviation’s most important
contribution on the continent is to connect markets. In this respect, reforming
Africa’s air transport regulatory framework remains critical." He pointed out that,
unfortunately, there are differing views on the African Union’s Single Africa
Air Transport Market (SAATM) initiative, intended to help governments leverage
sustainable economic growth by opening up and connecting trade and tourism
markets with expanded air services. "There are concerns (among some)
on the impact of SAATM on their businesses. In addition some airlines and
regulators fear what they see as uneven playing fields," said Zweigenthal. "For airlines to be
profitable, revenue must exceed costs. In Africa the revenue generated reflects
the competitive state of play. Yields are generally higher on regional flights
and lower for international flights. This is a result of the intense
competition provided by airlines from beyond Africa." Paul Steele, senior vice
president member and external relations at the International Air Transport
Association (IATA) said, in his view, aviation in Africa almost have a blank
canvas. This offers a real opportunity for the industry to be flexible, but
this would require both airlines and governments to make a mindset change about
the benefits of something like SAATM can bring," said Steele. * Fin24 is a guest of AASA
at its AGM.