The tax collection target of R1.422trn is "unrealistic" and "damaging" to the economy, a tax expert Patricia Williams has said. Williams, tax partner at law firm Bowmans, weighed in on the performance of the SA Revenue Service, ahead of the mini budget to be announced by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni on Wednesday October 30. Analysts at Momentum Investments project a R50bn shortfall in revenue collections. Fin24 previously reported that the shortfall could be attributed to the poorly performing economy, as well as the limited capacity at SARS resulting in collection inefficiencies. For the 2018/19 financial year, SARS undershot the revenue target of R1.302 trn by about R14.5bn, having collected R1.287trn. According to data from Treasury, as at August 2019, SARS had been tracking 37% of the target for 2019/20 with collections at R519bn. Take numbers in context "While there is much discussion around SARS' under-performance, there appears to be insufficient attention on the actual context of these numbers," Williams said. "Relative to economic growth, SARS' performance in 2018/19 appears good," she said. Williams said it is expected for tax collections to track the financial performance of the economy. She questioned why in 2018/19, tax collections were set at "approximately double" a realistic GDP growth. She said the similar problem is happening in 2019/20 year - the tax collection target of R1.422trn is over 10% higher than the actual tax raised in 2018/19, she said. Williams said that it might be expected that revenue collections should improve, now that SARS is under the helm of a new commissioner, Edward Kieswetter. But she also noted that SARS' collections, under the leadership of Tom Moyane in previous years, were overstated. "The main culprit in this respect was the systemic issue of delayed refunds, on which the Tax Ombud issued a report," Williams said. These views were echoed at a pre-budget media briefing hosted by Mazars. Mike Teuchert, national head of tax services, told journalists that SARS VAT refunds appear to be more than that which has been budgeted for. Rein in spending Williams also said that government spending is equally important in fiscal policy. Spending cannot simply be increased, expecting taxpayers to be "bottomless pits" of available funding, she said. SARS also cannot expect taxpayers to voluntarily comply with tax laws, without considering the way in which government revenues are spent, she added. "It is unsustainable to keep spending funds that have not been earned, based on tax collection targets that do not reflect current economic or tax industry realities," she said. Williams suggested that the unattainable revenue targets forced SARS to apply tax laws aggressively, such as penalising taxpayers. "Constantly setting excessive targets for SARS is demotivating and drives negative behaviours," she said. Williams said that a downward revision on the tax revenue collection for 2019/20 is anticipated. "Taxpayers should be hoping for more realistic tax collection targets and associated restrictions on government spending in [the National] Budget 2020," she said. Corporate Tax Cut To 25.2% To Spur Growth, Markets Celebrate The centre today reduced corporate tax on domestic firms in a bid to boost the sluggish economy, hurt by slowing demand across sectors, especially manufacturing that is among the highest contributors to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The market... A good balancing act done by govt in Budget 2019: Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision From the union budget this year, the overall fiscal deficit targets are manageable without any major slippages. Corporate and indirect tax collection targets look realistic & achievable. FM gives farm income support From the union budget this year, the overall fiscal deficit targets are manageable without any major slippages. Corporate and indirect tax collection targets look realistic & achievable. DEA Secy: Fiscal Deficit Target Intact DEA Secy said that they will achieve targets for direct tax collection and will have som short fall for the Indirect Tax. Fiscal deficit target in-line with expectations: Moodys Get an overview on the budget. Moodys says, Fiscal deficit target is in-line with expectations. Expect the government to move forward on the fiscal consolidation roadmap.Transfer to farmers and income tax cuts to make fiscal consolidation challe... Shorten tells Greens to hold off on booking buses to protest coal-fired power stations Labor Leader Bill Shorten tells the Greens they don't need to book their buses to head off and protest new coal-fired power stations. Shorten says that there isn't interest from the market for investing in coal without massive taxpayer subsidies, ... Nirmala Sitharaman To Present Her First Budget Today, Here's What To Expect Steps to drive the economy out of five-year low along with tax relief for middle classes may be on the cards as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman delivers her first budget today, balancing growth requirements and fiscal constraints. Ms Sitharama... Corporate tax to be reduces to 18%: Naushad Forbes Naushad Forbes, Co-Chairman, Forbes Marshall, said one of the topics covered in the meeting was taxation. He said there was recommendation to reduce corporate tax to 18% without any exemption. He said if the three principles of wide coverage, low ... U.S. GDP revised sharply down The U.S. economy slowed more than initially thought in the fourth quarter. As Fred Katayama reports, annual growth missed the Trump administration's target. Interesting to look at measures to expand tax base: Sunil Kumar Sinha, India Ratings Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist and Director at India Ratings & Research, shares his expectations from the budget including navigating fiscal constraints to accelerate GDP growth, measures to expand tax base and the agrarian crisis. Investec completes $84 million placement 27 Sep 2019 - Investec Australia Property Fund (ASX:IAP) has announced the successful completion of its fully underwritten institutional placement to raise $84 million. Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with Professor Matthew Ocran Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. Foreign Portfolio Investors Pulled Out Over 6,200 Crores In Just 2 Weeks Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have withdrawn over Rs. 6,200 crore in just the first two weeks of October. FPIs are essentially those who invest in securities and other financial assets in an another country. FPIs pulling out a significant amo... New Zealand's 'wellness' budget explained New Zealand's Labour government unveiled its hotly anticipated 'wellness' budget on Thursday, that it says go beyond GDP to measure the country's success. WATCH: Ekurhuleni is the 'engine of economic growth' - Ramaphosa at launch of train plant President Cyril Ramaphosa has described Ekurhuleni, where the official launch of a  multi-billion rand train manufacturing plant was held, as the engine of economic growth in the country. The plant is expected to deliver two new trains by December 20 Vocus Group (ASX:VOC) appoints Optus CFO Nitesh Naidoo 23 Oct 2019 - Vocus Group (ASX:VOC) has today appointed new chief financial officer Nitesh Naidoo who currently works as Vice President of Corporate Finance for Optus. EU Presidential Debate: 'A tax haven is a place where everyone pays their taxes,' says Vestager Candidates in the race to replace Jean-Claude Juncker took aim at tech giants on the subject of tax at a special debate in Brussels on Wednesday night. Cristiano Ronaldo's tax woes add $3.7 mln fine Soccer icon Cristiano Ronaldo will be fined $3.7 million after settling a tax evasion case with Spanish authorities, but the total charges could go up to over $21 million by the time the dust settles. I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided conc... I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided conc... Army Backs Plan To Tax Disability Pension, Says Not For "Tax Exemption" The Indian Army today endorsed the government's decision to tax pensions given to personnel superannuated from the service.The government, however, said it will not tax pensions paid to soldiers who suffered disabling injuries in the line of duty. How Nobel Winner Abhijit Banerjee Described State Of Indian Economy Abhijit Banerjee, Economics Nobel winner this year along with Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer, recently delivered a sharp critique of the Indian economy and rated the fall in consumption as "extremely serious". The 58-year-old was speaking at Brow... Income Tax Notice To Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa's Wife A notice has been sent to Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa's wife Novel S Lavasa for discrepancies in income tax filings, sources told NDTV. The Income Tax department has sought information "related to foreign exchange", the sources said. In a s... Tax Experts On Corporate Tax Measures Announced By Government Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures on Friday to revive sagging investment in the economy, including a cut in corporate taxes. Tax experts speak to NDTV on how the measures will benefit new investments. Reality Check: Myth Of Tax Cuts Can the recent corporate tax cuts announced by the Finance Minister reverse the economic downturn by boosting investment?  Reality Check discusses. "Tax Base Will Broaden": Executive Vice-Chairperson Of Apollo Hospitals To NDTV The Modi government announces arguably its most decisive step in combating a slowdown that has taken the country's GDP growth rate down from 8 per cent to a six year low of 5 per cent. Corporate tax rates in India - among the highest in the world ... Capital Gain Tax, LTCG Tax Exemption, Pension for elderly: Viewers issues for Budget 2019 Viewers shared with BTVI what they are looking for in the Union Budget and what is the single most important measure that the Finance Minister should take. Watch to find out what the people of the country want and find out how you can send your an... GST Completes 2 Years: Road Ahead For One Nation, One Tax GST completed 2 years on Monday. PK Das, Chairman of CBIC, said the focus going forward is on bringing tech-friendly and easy process for both direct and indirect tax. BTVI takes a look at how the tax system worked in the past two years and what c... France unveils plans for its GAFA tax, a new taxation on digital companies It's "the tax of the 21st Century": French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire unveils France's draft bill for a revenue tax digital giants Government Likely To Reintroduce Estate Duty Sources indicate, the government may consider reintroducing estate tax on property, which is inherited after the demise of the property holder. Sources also speculated there might be a separate legislation if not an amendment for this proposition.... Sensex Clocks Biggest Single-Day Gain In Over A Decade Domestic stock markets skyrocketed on Friday with the Sensex index clocking its biggest single-day gain in more than a decade, after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a cut in corporate tax rate for companies. The Sensex zoomed as much... CII Delegation Meets Fin Min ahead of budget In a pre-budget meeting with the Finance Ministry, the CII has suggested reduction of corporate tax to 18 per cent without exemptions among other demands. CII President Vikram Kirloskar said that they asked the government to introduce policies for... Sensex Jumps 1,950 Points, Nifty Tops 11,250 After Corporate Tax Cut omestic stock markets registered sharp gains to nearly two-month highs on Friday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a cut in corporate tax rate for domestic companies and new manufacturing firms. The S&P BSE Sensex index soared as... WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba. Congestion tax? The Grattan Institute is wrong, Constance says NSW Transport Minister Andrew Constance speaks to reporters in Sydney, fielding a question on a tax on drivers coming into the city. Mr Constance rejects the Grattan Institute's recommendation that congestion charging for the morning and afternoon... WATCH: Public Protector reopens investigation into "rogue unit" Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has reopened an investigation into the so-called "rogue unit" that operated at the South African Revenue Service between 2007 and 2015. U.S. economic growth slows in fourth quarter The U.S. economy slowed less than expected in the fourth quarter. As Fred Katayama reports, the Trump administration just missed its 3 percent annual target. ANZ (ASX:ANZ) reduces price on OnePath P&I sale to IOOF 17 Oct 2019 - ANZ (ASX:ANZ) has reduced the price for the sale of its OnePath Pensions & Investments business and Aligned Dealer Groups to IOOF Holdings (ASX:IFL) from $975 million to $850 million. German data holds up despite manufacturing slump German unemployment fell unexpectedly in September and retail sales rose in August, according to new data which allay concerns over the manufacturing slump in Europe's largest economy. Growth pangs for Indian economy: Q4 GDP at 5.8% As slowdown concerns weigh in, the GDP numbers saw a steep fall to 5.8 per cent from 6.6 per cent. Unemployment rates are at 6.1 per cent with FY19 GDP growth at a five-year low. The DEA secretary cited NBFC sector as a reason for the slowdown. Nasdaq, S&P 500 end week at closing highs The Nasdaq and S&P 500 rallied at the end of Friday trade and set new lifetime closing highs as investors digested stronger-than-expected economic data. Conway G. Money Monitor: Company cellphones may cause new tax headache New guidelines from Canada Revenue Agency suggest employers may have to look at how much of the cost of company- supplied electronic devices can be attributed to their commercial activities.  While there's a potential for use of company-supplied p... Socialists set to keep power as Portugal votes Portugal's Prime Minister Antonio Costa looks set for victory in the country's election, though will likely need the support of other parties. The Tax Free Tour Where do multinationals pay taxes and how much? Gaining insight from international tax experts, VPRO's Backlight takes a look at tax havens, the people who live there and the routes used to avoid tax globally. Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ) see 14% decline in FY19 cash earnings 17 Oct 2019 - Bank of Queensland (ASX:BOQ) reports their financial year 2019 cash earnings after tax of $320 million, is down 14 per cent on financial year 2018. Rs. 409 Crore Receipts Found In Multi-City Raids On Spiritual Guru "Kalki Bhagwan" Searches in multiple premises in firms and trusts founded by spiritual guru ''Kalki'' Bhagwan has led to detection of undisclosed income of more than Rs. 500 crore, the Income Tax department said on Friday. The undisclosed income covers unaccounte... ATO chief derails senate estimates with statement attacking Right To Know campaign and ATO whistlebl Supplied video obtained October 24, 2019 of Tax commissioner Chris Jordan in senate estimates on October 23, where he takes aim at the media's Right to Know campaign for alleged misinformation about the Australian Taxation Office, and personally a... Tax For Wealthy, Focus On Poor In Nirmala Sitharaman's Budget Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman raised taxes for the super-rich and hiked duties on fuel, gold and automobile parts in her first Budget on Friday, in measures aimed at tackling a five-year low in growth while tightening fiscal consolidation. T... "Will Boost Make In India": Nirmala Sitharaman On Corporate Tax Cut The government today reduced the income tax rate for companies by almost 10 percentage points to 25.17 per cent and offered a lower rate of 17.01 per cent for new manufacturing firms to boost economic growth from a six-year low. Finance Minister N...