Security of energy supply can be an advantage in securing investment, but in SA, load shedding is a "significant investment constraint," president Cyril Ramaphosa's economic advisor Trudi Makhaya has warned. The economist was speaking at Parliament on Tuesday, addressing journalists at a briefing on SA's second investment conference, set to be held in November in Sandton, Johannesburg. Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel was also present at the meeting to outline what the conference would entail. The conference is part of President Cyril Ramaphosa's drive to raised R1.2trn in five years. Last year raised some R300bn in investment commitments. This year's conference will see half of Cabinet, along with SA Inc., engaging with local and foreign investors to put forward the value proposition of SA as an investment destination. The conference will also be an opportunity to provide an update on the progress of investment and policy commitments made last year. Obstacle Responding to a question on how load shedding might impact SA's value proposition, Makhaya spoke frankly, saying it would be an obstacle in securing investment, but that there has been a concerted effort by government in the past 12 months to help address the challenges at Eskom. Eskom reintroduced load shedding last week, following the failure of a conveyor belt carrying coal from Exxaro's Grootgeluk Mine to Medupi Power Station, in Limpopo. Eskom expects the conveyor belt to be repaired by the end of the week, Fin24 previously reported. "No one can quibble with the idea that it is a significant investment constraint," Makhaya said of load shedding. "We used to pride ourselves for our energy as an advantage in terms of investment and now we are in different position," she said. Government and National Treasury have been thinking through the financial problems at Eskom, as the power utility faces mounting debt of R450bn. National Treasury has put forward a Special Appropriations Bill that would see Eskom receive an additional R59bn for the next two years to service its debt, over and above the R69bn allocated by Treasury for the next three years to aid the power utility in its turnaround. "Those cash injections were not a blank cheque. There were clear requirements in terms of reconfiguration imposed on the entity, to ensure the money has an impact," Makhaya said. The Chief Reorganisation officer appointed, Freeman Nomvalo, will be instrumental in making sure Treasury's directives are realised, she added. There have been many interventions to keep Eskom going in the past 12 months, with all these interventions consolidated holistically in a strategy to stabilise the operations, governance and financial sustainability of Eskom. The paper will be released Ramaphosa and backed by the Cabinet, she said. It is expected to fit within the Integrated Resources Plan, for 2019 which was gazetted last week. Makhaya said there are clear movements to make sure key decisions are taken in setting up a road map to ensure Eskom is not a constraint. Commenting on the shortcomings in the performance of state-owned enterprises, Patel said entities like Eskom and rail and ports company Transnet are critical for SA's economic growth. In terms of the progress being made at these entities – including addressing the cost of state capture through clean-up efforts led by Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan – Patel admitted more must be done. "We have not seen sufficient improvements, and my colleague Pravin Gordhan has been working actively to turn it around," he said. "We need more than that. We need an energy utility that is appropriately structured and well managed. We need a logistics company able to bring down the cost of moving goods across the country, underlying this is the opportunities of the African continental free trade agreement," he said. Long-term view Patel said when it comes to policy certainty from the IRP2019, investors want to know there is a plan. "[Investors] look for the long-term plan. Of course, it does not help the business when there are power outages as we have seen recently. But critically for them is that the state has a plan," Patel said. The IRP outlines how government plans to diversify energy technology and energy sources and it creates opportunities for private sector investment in energy, he added. In his most recent newsletter to the nation, Ramaphosa said that non-payment of electricity is partly contributing to load shedding. "Eskom is owed huge amounts of money by individual users. This is the time for a frank discussion on the payment of owed money to Eskom by individual users. The culture of non-payment exists in several parts of the country. "Boycotting payment for services had a place in apartheid South Africa. It was an effective tool to mobilise communities against an unjust system. But it has no place in present-day South Africa. If public utilities like Eskom are to survive, then all users need to pay for the services they receive," the president said in his newsletter. WATCH: Did Mboweni live up to the hype surrounding him, Abdul Azeez Davids explains Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with Sanisha Packirisamy Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon.Economist Sanisha Packirisamy shared her thoughts on the mini budget with Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha. IMF managing director forecasts growth 'slowdown' in the next year "In two years time, the world has moved from synchronized upswing  in other words, accelerating growth  to a synchronized slowdown", she said. IMF managing director forecasts growth 'slowdown' in the next year "In two years time, the world has moved from synchronized upswing  in other words, accelerating growth  to a synchronized slowdown", she said. India Drops 10 Places On Global Competitive Index: Can Modi 2.0 Revive Economy? India drops ten places on the global competitive index in a study by the World Economic forum.  India now ranks 68 out of 141 economies which have been studied.  Joining us from Geneva, the author of the report, Thierry Geiger, the Head of Researc... Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with RMB economist Mpho Tsebe Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon.Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha sat down with RMB economist Mpho Tsebe, to discuss. Industrial Output Shrinks To Minus 1.1%: How Can Economic Concerns Be Eased? Industrial growth shrank 1.1% in August, after a gap of 26 months, reinforcing fears of a slowing economy and deteriorating consumer sentiment. India's industrial output contracted in August due to weakness in the manufacturing and electricity sec... How Nobel Winner Abhijit Banerjee Described State Of Indian Economy Abhijit Banerjee, Economics Nobel winner this year along with Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer, recently delivered a sharp critique of the Indian economy and rated the fall in consumption as "extremely serious". The 58-year-old was speaking at Brow... Despite IMF's Projections, India Still Among Fastest Growing Economies: Nirmala Sitharaman India remains among the fastest growing economies of the world and efforts are being made to make it grow faster, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has projected a reduced growth rate for Ind... IMF Cuts India's Growth Forecast, Still Fastest Growing Economy India's growth forecast has been slashed by the International Monetary Fund or IMF for the financial year 2019-20, however the country still retains its rank as the world's fastest-growing major economy, tying with China. "India's economy is set t... Look for a "cosmetic" trade deal - Cardillo Beijing and Washington will likely notch a "cosmetic" trade deal, says Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo. But he recommends investors buy gold to hedge risks. WATCH: 'We'll get it right in year or two' - Gordhan on Eskom Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan says they understand the frustration loadshedding has put on South Africans and promised that Eskom will get it right in the next few years. Is India's Economy Doing 'Very Badly'? Just where do we stand as far as our economy is concerned? If you ask Abhijeet Banerjee, the Nobel laureate, the economy is doing very badly - the economic data is dubious, consumption has gone down. On the other hand, the government believes that... Politically Incorrect: 'Modinomics' vs 'Manmohannomics' As the opposition continues to target the Modi government on what it calls an inept handling of the economic crisis, Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the public banks were the worst in Manmohan Singh-Raghuram Rajan phase. Former RBI G... No end date for South African power cuts -minister South Africa's Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Tuesday that he cannot say yet when rolling blackouts will end, as power utility Eskom struggles with capacity shortages. Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with Professor Matthew Ocran Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. India's Growth Could Return To 7% In 2020: IMF's Gita Gopinath To NDTV The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has projected India's economy to grow to 7 per cent in 2020 after downgrading it to 6.1 per cent this year, its Chief Economist Gita Gopinath told NDTV in an exclusive interview in the US. Stocks decline as new trade war fears emerge Wall Street lost ground Friday after reports the Trump administration was considering delisting Chinese companies from U.S. stock exchanges. Conway G. Gittens wraps up the day's Wall Street action. Fossil Free The trust that politicians will solve climate change is waning, and a growing group of concerned citizens is looking for other ways to tackle it. They're now focusing on the financial world, which they believe has crucial influence. Gold and Alternative Investments Conference 2019 30 Sep 2019 - Symposium, Managing Director, Kerry Stevenson talks about the importance of gold in a diversified portfolio, its successful performance over the past 12 months and all thats on offer at this years event, 24-26 October, Sydney Sofit... New Energy Solar (ASX:NEW) says no asset sale decision has been made 07 Oct 2019 - New Energy Solar Manager (ASX:NEW), the Investment Manager for New Energy Solar today addressed the recent media speculation from news service SparkSpread regarding a potential asset sale. Startup Battlefield: Session 3 - Vise AI Vise AI is an AI-powered asset management platform that automates portfolio management for independent fi nancial advisors. Unlike Robo-Advisors, our system builds robust, hedge fund-grade portfolios that are personalized to client goals and provi... Mineral Resources to withdraw from the McIntosh JV 02 Oct 2019 - Mineral Resources (ASX:MIN) has notified Hexagon Resources (ASX:HXG) that they are withdrawing from the McIntosh Joint Venture (MJV) at the end of the month. Mini Budget 2018: Bheki Ntshalintshali Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. Reality Check: Myth Of Tax Cuts Can the recent corporate tax cuts announced by the Finance Minister reverse the economic downturn by boosting investment?  Reality Check discusses. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. Finance Minister Meets Private Banks, Says Liquidity Not A Crisis An important and fresh set of announcements by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the state of the economy - her focus tonight was on liquidity and growth and her argument was simple: There is no fundamental problem associated with liquidi... WATCH: Mixed reactions to Tito Mboweni's 2018 mini budget speech Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. Will Smith surprises tech start-up with instant $10,000 investment Will Smith stunned the bosses of a start-up tech company on Wednesday when he agreed invest $10,000 in their firm. WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: 'WMC agent' Pravin Gordhan not fit to hold office - BLF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture in Johannesburg, some Black First Land First (BLF) members demonstrated outside the building. The Better Bet: Gold Bonds Vs Gold ETFs Gold ETFs have given paltry returns for the last few years. So, is it worth investing in them? Also, which is safer: Gold or Gold ETFs? Kotak Mutual Fund Vice President Abhishek Bisen, and Vikas Puri, Vice President, Quant Capital, discuss. Watch ... WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. Chip sector shows signs of life - Retzler Needham Small Cap Growth Fund manager Chris Retzler tells Reuters' Fred Katayama he sees value in some U.S. tech names as the chip sector bounces back in Taiwan. He also likes the prospects for II-VI. Buy healthcare, fade tech in current political climate -Tocqueville Tocqueville Asset Management's Paul Kleinschmidt is looking for buying opportunities in the healthcare sector amid all the political headlines, but he finds the regulatory overhang facing big tech worrisome. Conway G. South Africa's Eskom sees $1.4 bln loss in 2019/20 South Africa's struggling power utility Eskom said on Tuesday it expects to post a loss of $1.4 billion in the 2019/20 financial year. LISTEN: Eskom CFO Calib Cassim on the utility's woes Eskom CFO Calib Cassim weighs in on the power utility's unbundling and plans to manage its crippling financial crisis Super retail (ASX:SUL) posts positive first quarter 22 Oct 2019 - Super retail group (ASX:SUL) has posted a positive result in the first quarter of the 2020 financial year the Group has delivered total sales growth of 4.2 per cent and like for like sales growth of 3.2 per cent. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges. Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with Sandile Zungu Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. Effects Of Global Economic Slowdown "More Pronounced" In India: IMF Chief As the global economy is witnessing "synchronized slowdown", the effect is "more pronounced" this year in some of the largest emerging market economies like India, said the new International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director, Kristalina Georgi... Wall Street slips as weak economic data offsets earnings strength Wall Street lost ground on Wednesday as weak U.S. economic data and simmering geopolitical tensions spooked buyers away from the equities market, despite a string of generally positive third-quarter earnings reports. US, China to begin 13th round of trade talks US and Chinese negotiators are scheduled to begin a 13th round of talks aimed at ending a 15-month trade war that is worrying global investors and weighing on the world economy. Trade wars could shrink global economy by $700 bn: IMF's Georgieva The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Kristalina Georgieva warns that "the cumulative losses of trade conflicts could get us to about $700 billion by 2020" in a speech in Washington ahead of IMF-World Bank autumn meetings next ... WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park  that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire