Receding water levels at Kariba Dam have meant the two
countries that generate electricity from it have to look elsewhere for power
supplies. But if climate change has its way, the two countries might lose
another key economic contributor and major tourist attraction - Victoria Falls. Zimbabwe and Zambia both generate most of their power from
Kariba Dam on the Zambezi River, which is on the border between the two
countries. The Kariba Dam has towered over one of Africa’s mightiest
rivers for 60 years, forming the world’s largest reservoir and providing
reliable electricity to the two countries. But as drought grips the region, flow on the Zambezi river
has dwindled to a third of what it was a year ago, limiting power generation. While both countries have looked to South Africa's Eskom as
well as the Southern African Power Pool for help, another disaster is looming. The Victoria Falls, also found along the mighty Zambezi
River, and a major tourist drawcard for both countries, is running dry –
threatening millions of dollars generated from tourist visits. At the height of the rainy season, more than five hundred
million cubic meters of water per minute plummet over the edge of the falls
into a gorge over one hundred meters below. But without much water, as is the case now, the falls become
just another gorge. Zambian president Edgar Lungu has laid the blame squarely on
climate change. Using his twitter
handle  the statesman bemoaned the impact of climate change on the
falls. Attaching pictures showing large sections of the world-famous waterfall
completely dried up, he tweeted: "These pictures of the Victoria Falls are
a stark reminder of what climate change is doing to our environment and our
livelihood. "[There is] no doubt that developing countries like
Zambia are the most impacted by climate change and the least able to afford its
consequences." He added that now is not the time to play "politics
with climate change". "We must come together and provide solutions
around mitigation and adaptation." He quoted Republican Political Consultant Whit Ayres: "Denying
the basic existence of climate change is no longer a credible position." Climate change has been found to be the biggest cause of
extreme events such as drought and floods, according to the UN expert panel on
climate change. And if indeed the Victoria Falls continue to suffer, it will
be a heavy blow. Holidaymakers have long made the journey to see Victoria Falls
in its full glory and majesty: the mist, the rainbow and the thunder. So any disruption caused by climate change on water
discharge at the waterfall will be most damaging to the tourism industry in
particular, and the two countries' economies in general.