The state visit this week by Nigerian President Muhammadu
Buhari to South Africa will once again cast a spotlight on the often tetchy
relations between the two African regional powers. Billed to take place under
the theme "Forging a new era in collaboration between South
Africa and Nigeria," the visit is intended to reset the button in
bilateral ties after years of acrimony, tensions and mutual misunderstandings. To figure out what needs to be done to fix the
dysfunctional relationship, it is important to understand what has led to the
current stasis. And that necessitates a recap of the nature of relations
between the two countries in the post-apartheid era. Some of the tensions date
back to the early years of the Nelson Mandela presidency. In 1995, General Sani
Abacha, the notorious autocratic leader, ordered the hanging of Ken Saro-Wiwa
and eight other human rights activists despite Mandela’s fervent pleas to him
not to do so. There was a great deal of progress in relations following Abacha’s
death in 1998, particularly during the presidencies of Thabo Mbeki and his counterpart
Olusegun Obasanjo. Some of the prickly aspects of the relationship have stemmed
from the two countries’ competing aspirations for continental leadership. For example,
tensions arose when they both sought a permanent seat on the United Nations Security
Council (UNSC). Also, in 2008, the relationship was strained further by a spate
of violent attacks against Nigerian and other African immigrants in South
Africa. The fact that South Africa is Africa’s only representative in key
multilateral fora such as the G20 and the BRICS grouping has also been a source
of disquiet in Abuja. In 2011, Nigeria and South Africa adopted conflicting
positions in the UNSC and the African Union (AU) on how to deal with the
military intervention by French and UN troops in the Ivory Coast and on whether
or not to recognise the National Transitional Council as the legitimate
government in Libya in the wake of the fall of Muammar Gaddafi’s regime. Relations
between Nigeria and South Africa were also strained by Nigeria’s opposition to Dr
Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma’s bid for appointment as chairperson of the AU
Commission. The countries have also clashed over immigration policies, sparking a
series of tit-for-tat spats. Previously, Pretoria expressed unhappiness that
visas issued to South Africans visiting Nigeria were granted for six months. For
their part, Nigerians were unhappy with being issued with multiple-entry visas
for South African visits. Later in 2012, in retaliation for the decision by
South African customs officials to deny 125 Nigerian travellers entry into
South Africa, Nigeria prevented 78 South Africans from travelling to the West
African nation. South Africa’s
competition with Nigeria has extended beyond the political and diplomatic
spheres. Although the South African
economy will remain the most advanced, sophisticated and diversified in Africa for
some time, Nigeria has mounted a challenge to Pretoria’s position as the leading
African economy. The rebasing
of the Nigerian economy in 2014 (the first since 1990), saw the country
overtake South Africa as Africa’s largest economy. The rebasing revealed that
Nigeria’s economy grew by 89% and total national economic output reached $509.9bn,
marking Nigeria as the 26th biggest economy in the world. South Africa’s growing economic footprint in
Nigeria has also been a source of rancour between the two powerhouses. There are over 100 South African companies
operating in Nigeria in several sectors, including telecommunications, hospitality,
mining, retail, banking and tourism. This has led, among others, to baseless accusations that
although Nigeria has been open to South African investment, the latter has
maintained protectionist policies against inward Nigerian investment. In this
context MTN, the South African mobile telecommunications giant
that has thrived within Nigeria’s huge domestic market, has served as both a lightning
rod and proxy for bilateral schisms. Leadership,
cooperation, trade Against this backdrop, a few things are
essential to addressing the problems that have paralysed the Pretoria-Abuja
partnership. First, the role of leadership. Past experience has shown that the
two countries work well when there is a good rapport between their leaders. Understandably,
Mandela had a non-existent and disastrous relationship with Abacha. The
Mbeki-Obasanjo era represented a "golden age" in bilateral links. The
two leaders got on well and this enabled them to achieve a great deal, notably
in spearheading peacekeeping missions and in creating and
reconstructing Africa’s institutions such as the AU, the New Partnerships for
Africa’s Development and the African Peer Review Mechanism. The presidencies of Jacob Zuma and Goodluck Jonathan
marked a nadir in relations as the two countries failed, among others, to reach
an agreement on who should lead the AU Commission. Zuma and Jonathan were not
only perceived as weak and indecisive, but also as bereft of a continental
vision akin to the one that drove the collaboration between their immediate
predecessors. Presidents Ramaphosa and Buhari have started their partnership on
a firm footing. Time will tell, though, whether this partnership will yield
meaningful outcomes. Second,
attention ought to be paid to the institutional management of the relationship.
Formal cooperation between
South Africa and Nigeria has been conducted through the Bi-National Commission
(BNC), which was set up in 1999. The BNC has, however, underperformed and
failed to live up to expectations. Revitalising the BNC is crucial to ensuring
a strategic coordination and management of the bilateral agenda. Had the BNC
been operating effectively many of the problems – regarding mutual visa
regimes, immigration, treatment of respective nationals abroad, and provision
of consular services –
that have undermined the relationship could have been anticipated timeously and
contained before they burst into the open. Third, commercial links are the cornerstone
of two countries’ relations and they should be elevated to the top of their
priorities. Without the deep business engagements, two-way ties would have not
attained the strategic importance they currently enjoy. According
to the Department of Trade and Industry, total trade
between the two countries stood at R56 billion
in 2018. South African exports to Nigeria include machinery and mechanical appliances, vehicles, base metals, foodstuffs,
plastics as well as chemicals. Crude oil accounts for 98% of South African
imports from Nigeria. Given the respective sizes of the two economies – they
both account for nearly 50% of continental economic output – trade and
investment relations remain disappointingly low. There is huge potential to
bolster economic cooperation. Fourth, there
is a need to bridge the perceptual gap between the peoples of South Africa and
Nigeria. Nigeria is a dynamic country that boasts some of the most talented and
educated people in Africa as well as successful entrepreneurs. These are people
with whom South African elites have frequently interacted and forged good working
relationships. However, they are not known to ordinary working-class South
Africans, whose experience of Nigerians has been largely that of drug peddlers
and human traffickers. To be sure,
even Buhari acknowledged in an interview with the British Daily Telegraph in 2016 that "Nigerians have also made
it difficult for Europeans and Americans to accept them because of the number
of Nigerians in different prisons all over the world accused of drug
trafficking or human trafficking." This is a global image of Nigeria that
needs rehabilitation and it calls for increased people-to-people and cultural
exchanges to dispel stereotypes and narrow the perceptual chasm. South Africa and Nigeria have a lot in common, ranging
from their global ambitions and regional dominance to their internal problems. As
regional powers, they are stronger when they act together, not against each
other. They stand to benefit from closer collaboration at bilateral, regional
and global levels. The Nigerian state visit presents both countries with an
opportunity to reboot a stagnant relationship. They should grasp it with both
hands. Mills Soko is a professor of International Business and Strategy at Wits Business School. Views expressed are his own.