President Cyril Ramaphosa hosted the first meeting of his
Presidential Economic Advisory Council on Wednesday afternoon at Tuynhuys in
Cape Town. The council was established in September to provide
expertise and coherence in governments broader economic policy. In his opening remarks, Ramaphosa outlined government's economic priorities and
interventions - which included a focus on tourism, and appointing advisory panels to improve investment prospects and the outlook of state-owned enterprises. Here are the top priorities and interventions as outlined by
the president. Tourism and migration Ramaphosa said strict visa requirements introduced in recent
years - including a now-scrapped stipulation that traveling minors had to carry
an unabridged birth certificate - put a dampener on the appetite for tourism. Ramaphosa said an electronic visa system was being piloted
by the Department of Home Affairs and he made site visits to see demonstrations
of the system for himself. "An e-visa system will be piloted from next month. I
was delighted to be shown a demonstration to see how it works. We have had
situations where people have had to travel hundreds of kilometers to apply for
a visa to visit South Africa. Now they will be able to do this online,"
said Ramaphosa. Spectrum release Ramaphosa said a policy directive to release spectrum was
issued and that the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa)
would license the spectrum. "We met with Icasa and they explained that they have
started the process. We should be seeing the licenses being issued soon,"
Ramaphosa. Investment and jobs Ramaphosa said an integrated youth employment strategy was
under development. He said engagements with business on the ease of doing
business on South Africa had also started. Parastatals Ramaphosa said government would soon be appointing an
investment panel, as well as a state-owned entity advisory panel. IRP Echoing remarks from Minister of Mineral Resources and
Energy Gwede Mantashe earlier this week, Ramaphosa said the Integrated Resource
Plan was on the cusp of being approved by Cabinet and gazetted for public
comment soon. Economic growth Ramaphosa said the National Economic Development and Labour
Council and the National Planning Commission would be monitoring the economic
growth outlook for South Africa as well as employment figures to help guide
policy in these areas. He said hope was on the horizon for a better economic
climate, citing rebounded q/q growth of 3.1% in the second quarter.