The Public Investment
Corporation is working on boosting staff morale and restoring its image, but
interim chair Reuel Khoza says "much more" must be done to rebuild it
after two governance interventions and a year of intense public scrutiny. In his address in the
asset manager's annual report for the financial year ended March 31, 2019,
Khoza acknowledged that the institution had not been immune to
"ostensible" lapses in good corporate governance, nor had it been
"sufficiently insulated" from political and other external
influences. The PIC manages
assets worth more than 2trn, including on behalf of the Unemployment
Insurance Fund (UIF) and the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF). In July 2019, Finance
Minister Tito Mboweni appointed the interim board, after the previous board collectively resigned in February. Later that month Khoza was elected board chairperson, a change from the usual pattern
where the deputy finance minister is made chairperson. WATCH: 'I've been vilified, alleged to be the king of corruption' - Zuma at state capture inquiry Former president Jacob Zuma appeared before the state capture commission of inquiry on Monday. "During the year
under review, the PIC come under sustained public scrutiny in the media, which
damaged the organisation's reputation," Khoza said. Allegations levelled
against some senior officials at the PIC relate to the flouting of investment
processes, improper transactions, and abuse of positions or privilege by some
employees. Interventions As a result, the PIC
was subjected to two independent governance interventions. The first, appointed
by the finance minister in July 2018, was an independent forensic investigation
into allegations against former CEO Dan Matjila and chief financial officer
Matshepo More. In October President
Cyril Ramaphosa appointed a commission led by Justice Lex Mpati. Over eight
months the commission heard from 77 witnesses – which include former PIC board
members and businesspeople who had dealings with the PIC. It will submit its
final report with findings by October 31. "The board will
consider and develop a plan to implement recommendations once it receives its
report," Khoza said. He commented that
both interventions, coupled with "prolonged negative publicity"
impacted on the "image, performance and staff morale" of the PIC.
Khoza said the interim board has been working to boost staff morale, win back
market confidence and ensure the business is conducted with "high levels
of professionalism, fairness, integrity and diligence". "There is no
doubt we will need to do much more to restore the PIC's credibility and salvage
what is left of its reputation." The board will
prioritise stabilising the organisation, filling critical senior positions and
that of the CEO and reviewing its policies, Khoza said. Regressing audit
opinion Acting CEO Vuyani
Hako noted that governance issues not only impacted the market and the staff's
perception of the PIC, but also that of the Auditor General of South Africa
(AGSA). The PIC received an
unqualified audit opinion from the AGSA, but there were findings made on
compliance to applicable laws and regulations. "This is a regression from
the previous financial year's clean audit opinion," Hako said. "The AGSA
findings relate to non-compliance to certain laws and regulations and concerns
around compliance with some policies and procedures which might result in
breaches in the PIC Act," Hako said. The PIC's management
is committed to improving the control environment and implementing
recommendations of the AGSA, he said. The asset manager be
using the next few months to reflect on the PIC commission's report and develop
a corrective plan, he added. In terms of the PIC's
financial statement, Haku noted that the operating environment was challenging.
Trade tensions and slow global and local economic growth impacted the
investment environment. Declining profits,
continued risks Low economic growth
locally particularly adversely impacted the PIC's portfolio as the majority of
its investments are held domestically. The PIC's profit
declined 26% to R300.4m compared to R411.2m reported in 2018. The PIC, however,
declared a dividend of R80m, paid to the shareholder - government. Hako commented the
PIC's diversified portfolio helped it withstand "unanticipated
market" shocks. The PIC managed to grow assets from R2.083trn by 2.3% to
R2.131trn. A total of $873.7m
(about R13.2bn) has been approved for investments in the rest of Africa. A
total of R15bn has been approved for impact investments, private equity and
property investments. The PIC anticipates
the investment environment to remain risky and uncertain - both globally and
domestically.