While earnings and valuations at both Zeder and portfolio
level are expected to be subdued during the next reporting period, CEO Norman Celliers has said he anticipates an "improved position to create value for
shareholders" – particularly in light of the anticipated disposal of
Pioneer Foods. Zeder [JSE:ZED]
has investments in broad agribusiness and related industries and historically
focused on the food and beverage sectors. Its 28.6% interest in Pioneer Foods remains its largest
investment, representing 51.2% of its portfolio.  Celliers said the intended disposal of its interest in
Pioneer Foods to PepsiCo was approved by an overwhelming 99.65% of voting Zeder
shareholders. Final implementation of the transaction remains subject to
further terms and conditions. Over R4bn to shareholders The offer consists of a cash consideration of R110 per
Pioneer Foods ordinary share. Zeder is expected to receive around R6.4bn, with
net cash of around R4.82bn available after meeting certain obligations. The
group expects to distribute between R4.25bn and R4.75bn to shareholders and
invest the remainder of the net proceeds into its existing portfolio or new
opportunities. The contemplated disposal had a positive impact on the share
price of Pioneer Foods and, in turn, on Zeder's SOTP (sum-of-the-parts) value
during the period under review, according to Celliers. Zeder will, therefore, now proceed to vote in favour of this
transaction at a general meeting of Pioneer Foods shareholders in October 2019. Tough trading conditions However, Celliers said on Tuesday, notwithstanding seasonal variances,
Zeder's portfolio continued to trade under extremely difficult conditions
during the interim period until the end of August 2019. During the interim period, there was an 11% increase in its SOTP
per share to R6.25, as at August 31, 2019.  The SOTP value per share is calculated using the quoted
market prices for all JSE-listed investments, and internal valuations for
unlisted investments. At the close of business on Monday, 30 September 2019,
Zeder's SOTP value per share was R6.22. Zeder's recurring headline earnings per share decreased by
63% to 3.6 cents due to prevailing challenging macro conditions, it said in
a statement. Outlook Regarding Zeder’s investment in Zaad, as a strategic holding
company that invests and operates in the specialised agri-inputs industry with
a focus on emerging markets, Zeder has committed an additional R300m investment
in the company to enable two transactions. Zaad acquired all the remaining shares in Farm-Ag and
concluded transaction agreements to acquire a 40% stake in the EAS group of
companies in Kenya, with an option to acquire an additional stake in the
future. Celliers said the negative macro conditions are likely to
remain unchanged in the short to medium term, but will likely improve over the
longer term. As a result, earnings and valuations at both a Zeder and
portfolio level are expected to be subdued during the next reporting period, in
his view. "Notwithstanding these challenges, and particularly in light
of the anticipated Pioneer Foods disposal, Zeder should be in an improved
position to create value for its shareholders through this cycle," he
said. In line with its policy, Zeder will declare a final dividend
at year end.