Parliament's
Portfolio Committee on Public Enterprises has thrown its weight behind a call to
give the ministry more authority over South Africa's state-owned entities,
recommending that a bill that would give it more oversight be fast-tracked. The
committee's Budgetary Review and Recommendation Report was released on Monday. "[The
department should] fast-track the introduction of the Shareholder Management
Bill, which will empower the department to carry out its oversight responsibilities
over SOCs [state-owned companies] more effectively, especially in providing
guidance on how to align SOCs' strategic priorities with government
policies," the report read. ·        Subscribe
to Fin24's newsletter here In
July, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan told Parliament that a green
paper for the Shareholder
Management Bill, which would allow the department to exercise stronger
oversight over parastatals, would be adopted next year. Earlier
this month, the portfolio committee was told of administrative challenges
facing SOEs, including irregular expenditure among the entities under the
Department of Public Enterprises, which went from R31.4bn in the 2017/18
financial year to R86.2bn in the 2018/19 financial year. According
to Gordhan's previous remarks, the bill seeks to empower the department to
execute its shareholder management responsibility and oversee the state of
government's entities. The
minister, being the shareholder representative, would likely exercise this
responsibility. He
said the green paper for the bill – an initial discussion document – would be
under development during this financial year. The
committee has also asked the department to provide it with shareholder compacts
signed with state-owned entities in order to enhance the committee's oversight
role as well, within one month of signing the agreement. The
report said while ownership questions remain regarding SOEs, it remained
crucial to appreciate that entities cannot perform optimally "in their
current form". READ: Government
meddling sets black execs up to fail at SOE 'slaughterhouses' - BMF "The
continual bailouts and guarantees are placing the South African economy at
risk. A model which will limit government exposure through providing guarantees
and financial support to SOCs is currently explored by the minister of
finance," the report said. It
concluded that the department should partner with National Treasury in the
development of a sustainable business model, which would assert the role and
mandate of the department. The
report's recommendation comes amid criticism from unions and lobby groups that
have blamed government interference for instability at some SOEs.