Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the
social network doesn’t fact-check political advertisements because it’s not the
place of technology companies to become arbiters of truth. "I don’t think most people want to live in a world
where you can only post things that tech companies judge to be 100% true,"
Zuckerberg said on Thursday to an auditorium full of students at Georgetown
University’s Gaston Hall in Washington. "People should be able to see for
themselves what politicians are saying." In recent weeks, Facebook has been criticized for its policy
on political ads, with the presidential campaigns of Joe Biden and Elizabeth
Warren calling on the company to remove ads from U.S. President Donald Trump’s
campaign that include claims with no evidence. Facebook has declined to do so,
raising the larger question of whether such ads on social media should be
regulated. Zuckerberg said on Thursday that he’s considered getting rid
of political ads on his platforms altogether - it’s a small part of the company’s business -- but banning
them would favor incumbents. "In a democracy, I believe people should decide what’s
credible, not tech companies," Zuckerberg said. The company doesn’t fact-check posts from politicians,
including ads, to avoid the appearance that it’s taking sides. Warren took
advantage of Facebook’s policy earlier this month with a series of ads claiming
Zuckerberg was endorsing Donald Trump for re-election -- which isn’t true.
Warren, who is running for the Democratic nomination, ran the false assertion
to highlight Facebook’s policy following an ad from Trump that accused fellow
Democrat Joe Biden of bribing officials in Ukraine, without any proof. "Facebook has chosen to sell Americans’ personal data
to politicians looking to target them with disproven lies and conspiracy
theories, crowding out the voices of working Americans," said Bill Russo,
a spokesman for Biden. Uphold free speech Zuckerberg also warned that if technology companies and
platforms like Facebook don’t fight hard to uphold free speech, the internet
could one day look like it does in China. The Chinese government, he said, is
building a censored version of the internet, and exporting that version through
some of its most popular online services. He called out Bytedance Inc. unit TikTok, a rival mobile
social network, as one of those services, and said TikTok has censored content
from the Hong Kong protests. "Until recently, the internet in almost every country
outside China has been defined by American platforms with strong free
expression values," Zuckerberg said. "There’s no guarantee these
values will win out." Zuckerberg also used Thursday’s speech, billed as a conversation on free expression, to
argue that the social network’s enormous size and scale offers people a new
kind of power: the ability to share their thoughts with the masses. The CEO
called this power "a fifth estate alongside the other power structures in
our society." He touted the importance of giving individuals a voice,
which is where the most progress comes for social change. "In times of social turmoil, our impulse is often to
pull back on free expression. We want the progress that comes from free
expression, but not the tension," Zuckerberg said. "We saw this when
Martin Luther King Jr. wrote his famous letter from Birmingham Jail, where he
was unconstitutionally jailed for protesting peacefully." Disinformation Bernice King, the daughter of Martin Luther King Jr.,
responded on Twitter, writing that the late civil rights leader was targeted
by "disinformation campaigns launched by politicians" that "created
an atmosphere for his assassination." Internet services like Facebook can still protect free
expression while addressing problems that have been raised by this new
technology, Zuckerberg said. He acknowledged that when everyone has a voice,
some people will use that to try to organize violence and influence elections.
At Facebook’s scale, even if a very small percentage of people try to cause
harm, that’s still a lot, Zuckerberg said. The company has chosen to focus on
the authenticity of the speaker rather than judging the content itself, he
said. While Facebook, as a private business, is not beholden to
free-speech rules per the First Amendment, more than 2.7 billion people use its
products around the world. The company’s algorithm--software that decides what
people see in their feeds--and content policies have a tremendous impact on
whose voices are heard. The company’s decisions have often been controversial,
putting Facebook in a constant defensive posture with many government leaders,
who either think Facebook is doing too much or not enough to police its
properties. Since Russia’s election interference in 2016, Facebook has
built up an apparatus of third-party fact checkers, responsible for marking a
post as false, after which it might be ranked lower in the news feed, but never
removed. The system, which often fails to address content until after it’s gone
viral, doesn’t apply to political ads. Facebook’s rules on what stays up and gets taken down on its
social network, as well as on Instagram, Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp
platforms, are applied by a global group of thousands of low-wage contractors,
who manage more than 100 billion pieces of content across the digital
properties daily. The results are often inconsistent, causing confusion. The
company is building an independent oversight board that can be the last word on
Facebook decisions that users disagree with. Besides the content policies, Facebook has been under fire
for its news feed algorithm, which tends to highlight content that triggers an
emotional response in users. That means shocking news, including false
information, tends to spread quickly there. Facebook has been hesitant to
remove misinformation because of concerns, especially on the conservative side,
about showing political bias. Zuckerberg has been meeting conservative pundits
to improve the relationship, though the company has said it hasn’t found any
evidence of bias.