Tencent’s Call of Duty Mobile has attracted 20
million gamers within the first two days of its worldwide debut, a big boost
for the company’s ambition of adapting top-tier titles with global name
recognition for smartphones. Based on Activision Blizzard’s marquee PC and
console franchise, Call of Duty Mobile generated a quick $2m in player spending
after rolling out in the US, Europe, India and Latin America, researchers at
Sensor Tower said. Its downloads rivaled those for Nintendo's Mario Kart Tour
over its first two days, one of the most successful mobile game launches ever,
according to their findings. Call of Duty Mobile is the highest-profile project
to emerge from Tencent’s effort to convert established gaming franchises to
mobile, priming a pipeline that already stretches to 2022, Thomson Ji, vice
president of Tencent’s TiMi Studios, said in an interview. "We’re committed to developing games to target
global markets," said Ji at TiMi, which became the largest of Tencent’s
four main creative studios off the back of breakout success Honour of Kings. "Call
of Duty is very influential globally and we hope this game can help us reach
hundreds of millions of mobile gamers overseas." Wider net Tencent, operator of the WeChat social media
service, is developing new avenues for growth as uncertainty grips its home
market. In May, the internet giant reported its slowest pace of sales expansion
since going public in 2004, so it’s casting a wider net to diversify away from
a domestic economy in the crosshairs of the US government. The company is
moving beyond just importing famous titles for Chinese audiences and is now,
conversely, designing smartphone versions of popular console games for export
overseas. Call of Duty Mobile, which launched October 1, is a
litmus test of Tencent’s ability to wow international players. It revamps one
of Activision’s best-selling franchises for smartphone gamers, a group that now
exceeds 2.2 billion in number. According to Tencent estimates, that’s three
times the size of the audience playing on consoles. Despite a temporary glitch, Call of Duty Mobile
lured six times more players upon its opening than the mobile edition of
PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, another Tencent project, which hit the same
markets last year, said Randy Nelson, Sensor Tower’s head of mobile insights.
And all this is without the game launching in Tencent’s home market of China. Social networking "This is a particularly strong launch for the
action genre on mobile and mobile games in general," he wrote in an email.
"I can tell that Tencent has incorporated what it learned in the
development of PUBG Mobile here." The WeChat operator is betting on the popularity of
hardcore first-person shooters like Call of Duty to help it break into North
America. It’s the company’s first attempt to bring a so-called triple-A title -
one with the very highest of marketing and development budgets - to the
smartphone screen. For now, players in India accounted for the largest proportion
of installs at 14% while the US ranked ninth with 9% of downloads. To ensure the popularity of the game, Tencent has
introduced elements of what it knows best: social networking. The game allows
people to link up with their friends from Facebook and form groups to go on
missions. Call of Duty Mobile is free to play, though it features built-in
incentives for people to spend real money on virtual goods such as character
skins. The mobile version was developed by Tencent but
Activision Blizzard, in which the Chinese company owns a stake, is publishing
Call of Duty Mobile in regions including the US, Europe and Latin America.
Tencent oversees distribution for South Korea while Sea, which Tencent has also
invested in, looks after Southeast Asia. Tencent will split revenues for
publishing and intellectual property rights, Ji said without providing
specifics. "This is just the beginning," said Rob
Kostich, president of Activision Blizzard. "There’s much more to come."