State-owned enterprises are increasingly relying on government guarantees to secure loans, but this reflects badly on government's debt and could result in credit downgrades, the Auditor-General of South Africa warned. On Wednesday, Auditor General Kimi Makwetu briefed Parliament's Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) on the audit outcomes of national and provincial government for the 2018/19 financial year. There were a total of 432 auditees, which included government departments and public entities. Overall, less than a quarter (23%) of auditees received clean audits, while 11% or 49 audits were outstanding, as at September 2, 2019. Most of the outstanding audits were from public entities. The AG audits 14 state-owned enterprises. These include national broadcaster the SABC, airlines SA Express and SAA, the Post Office, the Land Bank and Denel. The AG does not audit Eskom, diamond miner Alexkor or the Industrial Development Corporation, as it does not have the resources to do so, Makwetu told members of Parliament. However, the AG will be deploying capacity to be the signing-off auditor for Transnet for the 2020/21 year. Outstanding audits The AG only completed audits of 11 SOEs. The remaining three – SAA, Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA) and the South African Nuclear Energy Corporation (Necsa) had outstanding audits. While the AG expects to complete audits for Necsa and TCTA by the end of October, no timeline was given for the SAA audit. Fin24 previously reported that SAA's annual financial report could not be tabled in September due to financial challenges. Makwetu cited the same reason for not being able to complete the audit. However, he said the bulk of the auditing had been done and about 10% of the work is outstanding. In a statement, Scopa chairperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said it was concerning some SOEs and government departments had not submitted their financial statements to the AG. SAA in particular had not submitted financial statements for two years, the committee heard. "As a result of this non-submission, no
auditing work has been done for 2019 at SAA due to the outstanding information.
This shows the disregard of SAA for the law and sets a wrong precedence of
normalising the non-submission of financial statements," Hlengwa said. "Some of the reasons for outstanding audits on SOEs are because of known going concern difficulties and challenges," the AG's presentation to Parliament read. "Two of the SOEs for which the audit was finalised had going concerns problems – namely Petroleum Oil and Gas Corporation of South Africa and the SA Post Office." Government exposure The AG further unpacked that during the 2018/19 year, government guarantees amounting to R446bn were issued to 11 SOEs. This includes SOEs which are not audited by the AG. "The total government exposure relating to these guarantees amount to R328bn," the AG said. The AG noted that SOEs used the guarantees to obtain loans from lenders. "Guarantees or bailouts for SOEs would increase the budget deficit of the fiscus, government debt and borrowing costs, and result in downgrades from rating agencies," the presentation read. Irregular expenditure The report showed that irregular expenditure by the 11 audited SOEs amounted to R1.35bn. The SABC accounted for the largest amount (R351m) of irregular expenditure, followed by Airports Company South Africa and Denel. Irregular expenditure is incurred through the non-compliance of supply chain management processes, as well as payments made without following due process, Makwetu said. *This article was updated at 13:50 on Wednesday, October 23 to include remarks from Scopa. Tories, Liberals react to AG findings on Canadas asylum system Canadas refugee system is plagued with a backlog of asylum claims that is worse now than it has ever been, caused in part by systemic inefficiencies, according to findings from interim auditor general Sylvain Ricard. As part of five audits of gov... Grant Thornton Report Blows Lid Off Rating Agencies-IL&FS Nexus Grant Thornton in its forensic audit report, has blown the lid off unholy nexus between India's rating agencies and IL&FS. The report revealed that good rating was consistently provided to IL&FS between June 2012 and 2018. Multiple emails were fou... Aus participation rate hits all time high: Aus shares steady at noon, holding fresh highs 13 Jun 2019 - The Australian share market opened higher and is holding steady at Midday with gains being capped by falls in Afterpay Touch Group (ASX:APT) and Challenger (ASX:CGF). Trend participation rate hits all-time high, beating expectations.... Reliance Capital Rubbishes PwC's Observations Reliance Capital has said that PWCs  observations are completely baseless and unjustified and that the auditing firm was driven by fear psychosis after SEBI debarment and IL&FS aftermath. PWC acted prematurely without even statutory discussion wi... WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Govt working on reform in spectrum pricing mechanism Union Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said that the government is working on reforms in the spectrum pricing mechanism The statement gains significance as telecom operators have complained of high spectrum prices pegged by the Telec... WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people'  EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. 48,000 Telangana Road Transport Workers Sacked Over Strike 48,000 workers of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation have been summarily sacked by Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao after they went on strike. They wanted the corporation to be merged with the government and had come up with a list ... After Jammu Leaders, Those In Kashmir To Be Freed "One By One" Political leaders in Kashmir, who have been under house arrest for more than 50 days, will be released, but in a phased manner, an advisor to Jammu and Kashmir Governor has said. The leaders from Jammu -- also under house arrest as part of the loc... Clashes as Ecuador president declares 'state of emergency' Clashes break out between protesters and police after Ecuadoran President Lenin Moreno declared a "state of emergency" Thursday following demonstrations against rising fuel prices due to the government scrapping subsidies. MP to Carillion auditors: I wouldn't trust you to audit my fridge MPs on the Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy Committee and Work and Pensions Committee quiz Carillion's auditors KPMG and Deloitte over the effectiveness of their services with the failed construction giant. All Postpaid Mobile Phones To Be Restored In J&K From Monday More than two months after the government imposed a communications blackout in Jammu and Kashmir before revoking its decades-old special privileges granted to the state under the constitution, postpaid mobile connections will be restored on Monday... Jammu And Kashmir Reopens To Tourists Two Months After Travel Advisory Jammu and Kashmir reopens to tourists from today, more than two months after the government had asked tourists and pilgrims to leave the state before it made the big announcement of ending the special status for Jammu and Kashmir. On Tuesday, Jamm... Dead fish line Lake Pamamaroo in NSW fish kill Supplied footage obtained on October 17, 2019 of dead fish lining Lake Pamamaroo near Menindee in NSW far west, shot on October 16, 2019. Intense drought continues to grip most of the state with ministers and NSW Premier Gladys Berejikilian warnin... WATCH | EFF's crimen injuria case against Adam Catzavelos postponed until November The crimen injuria case against Adam Catzavelos - who went viral in a video in which he used the k-word - was postponed to November 12 in the Equality Court sitting in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. What Led To Patna Flood? Probe Team Has Members Who Are In Line Of Fire Weeks after the severe flooding in Patna, the Bihar government has formed a team to probe what lead to the unprecedented situation in the state capital and to fix those responsible for the gaps. The probe team, however, has members who themselves ... Baghdad lifts curfew as unrest death-toll soars More than 70 Iraqis have now been killed in several days of deadly protests, as the police used hardline tactics. Baghdad did lift a curfew though -- protesters were ignoring it anyway. Karnataka Government Considering Implementing Citizens' List: Minister The BJP government in Karnataka is considering preparing an Assam-like National Register of Citizens (NRC) list in the state, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. "A very big talk is going on regarding the implementation of NRC across ... 9-Year-Olds Among Minors Detained, J&K Says Not Illegal, Top Court Told No child has been illegally detained by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir, the state administration has told a four-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court to look into allegations of illegal detention. The government, however, has admi... WATCH: Ramaphosa makes surprise stop for Cape Town fish and chips President Cyril Ramaphosa made a quick lunch takeaway stop at Palace Fisheries in Salt River, Cape Town, ahead of the State of the Nation Address. Fiery clashes plunge Lebanon into crisis Demonstrators and police clashed in Lebanon into the early hours of Friday as thousands of people rallied against the government's handling of an economic crisis, in one of the biggest protests the country has seen in years. Montreal archdiocese commissions retired judge to conduct external audit into sexual abuse of minors Archbishop Christian Lepine taps retired Quebec Superior Court justice to conduct external audit of abuse claims spanning nearly 70 years and make statistics public. Littleproud wants states held to account when it comes to feeding drought-affected livestock Drought Minister David Littleproud in Canberra says the states and federal government have a clear strategy to provide assistance to farmers doing it tough in the drought. Mr Littleproud says the federal government is charged with looking after fa... NRMA tells motorists to avoid petrol bowser with prices to reach 11-year high NRMA spokesperson Pete Khoury in Sydney tells drivers to avoid service stations with petrol prices in the state set to hit an 11-year high. Mr Khoury says the average price for petrol is expected to reach 166 cents a litre on Wednesday and won't b... 'Bulgarian govt, not Football Union, bears racism guilt' says President "It is unprecedented and totally unacceptable for the state to interfere in a crude and unacceptable way in a completely independent federation" Bulgarian president Rumen Radev shows his political allegiance by accusing the Bulgarian Government of... McAllister says govt needs to take senate estimates seriously Senator Jenny McAllister, comments to the media after yesterday's senate hearings about the government and senior public officials not answering questions that would make the government "transparent and accountable". Ms McAllister then outlines a ... Govt emarketplace can become indias amazon says goyal A futuristic plan for Indias own ecommerce portal are afoot as Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said that he imagines the Government eMarketplace GeM to become such a platform on the lines of Amazon and Flipkart to sell Indian products Reviews about everything, action on nothing: Opposition criticises govt on banks Opposition leader Anthony Albanese speaking to media in Sydney about the competition watchdog wanting another inquiry into the big four banks. Albanese says there are plenty of options open to the government to reign the banks in. "Reviews about e... Protesters in Ecuador close road against rising fuel prices Protesters in Pambamarquito close a road, to demonstrate against rising fuel prices due to the government scrapping subsidies, amid the government declaring a state of emergency. Protests continue in Ecuador over fuel price rise Protests continue in Ecuador after President Lenin Moreno declared a "state of emergency" Thursday following demonstrations against rising fuel prices due to the government scrapping subsidies. 25,000 UP Home Guards Sacked, Minister Assures No One Will Be Removed Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday terminated the services of 25,000 home guards of the police department in the state. The Home Guard Minister Chetan Chauhan clarified that no official letter had been received from the Home Department in this regard... WATCH: Magashule is 'reckless' for making spy claims in public - Mbalula Claims by ANC secretary general Ace Magashule that state organs were used to tap his cellphone and that of his deputy, Jessie Duarte, were "reckless", ANC head of elections Fikile Mbalula has said. WATCH: Harry Gwala mayor 'angry' after murder charges withdrawn Harry Gwala District Mayor Mluleki Ndobe is angry, saying his name was tarnished when he was accused of the murder of a former ANC Youth League (ANCYL) secretary Sindiso Magaqa. POLITICS PODCAST | Senior journalist Ranjeni Munusamy implicated in Zondo commission This week on POLOTIKI we discuss the bombshell dropped at the State Capture commission which saw Tiso Blackstar senior journalist and associate editor Ranjeni Munusamy implicated in allegations regarding a secret slush fund of Crime Intelligence. "What Restrictions?" Amit Shah Targets Opposition Over Jammu and Kashmir Union minister Amit Shah today claimed there is no restriction in Jammu and Kashmir any longer and the opposition was just spreading "misinformation" about the situation. The minister also said that the government's move to end Jammu and Kashmir's... Reverse "If You Dare": PM Modi's Challenge To Opposition On Article 370 Prime Minister Narendra Modi today challenged the opposition on its complaints about the government's move on Jammu and Kashmir, asking them to reverse it "if they dare". "Do you think anyone has the courage to bring it back? Will their political ... Washington state bans flavored vaping products Washington on Friday joined several other states in banning the sale of flavored vaping products amid concern over the mysterious lung illness that has sickened hundreds of people and killed about a dozen across the country. Opposition attacks "heartless" government over reported hospital cuts NSW Shadow health minister Ryan Park and Opposition Leader Jodi McKay speaking to media at state parliament about reports of hospitals being forced to cut surgery. Park labels the government heartless and says those in the western suburbs are bein... "No Time" Due To Ayodhya Hearings: Top Court Puts Off J&K Cases By A Day All petitions related to Jammu and Kashmir, where massive security restrictions are in place since the government scrapped special status to the state under Article 370, were today put off by a day by the Supreme Court, which said they would be ta... New powers to tackle shoddy building work NSW Minister for Better Regulation Kevin Anderson speaking to media at state parliament about new legislation to reform the building industry. "Today we start the process of restoring consumer confidence in the residential building markets," he sa... POLITICS PODCAST: Public Protector vs Ramaphosa - politics at play? AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, President Cyril Ramaphosa takes centre stage. This following his reply to the debate of the State of Nation Address and the Public Protector's investigation into Bosasa campaign funds. Wrestlers Babita Phogat, Yogeshwar Dutt Among BJP's Haryana Candidates Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar of the BJP will contest the state election from Karnal assembly seat, while sports stars Babita Phogat and Yogeshwar Dutt have got BJP tickets. Thirty-eight MLAs are contesting and seven have been dropped... Bihar Floods: Governance Drowns In The Deluge? Bihar and parts of eastern UP have been inundated as heavy rains have battered these two states. In Bihar, water has laid seige in the state capital. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi himself had to be rescued in a boat. While civic apathy is ever... WATCH: Mzwanele Manyi takes the stand at state capture inquiry (Day 1 / Part 2) Former Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) CEO Mzwanele Manyi took the stand at the state capture commission of inquiry in Johannesburg on Wednesday. POLITICS PODCAST: The gloves are off! Gordhan vs the Public Protector, and Zuma vs State Capture. This week on POLOTIKI, we look at the raging battle between the Public Protector and Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. WATCH: SAA chief pilot gives an insider's view of inauguration airshow Chief Pilot Vusi Khumalo is still on cloud nine.