All the Chiara
Ferragni wannabes in Italy now have a college degree program to hone
the Instagramming skills that made her one of the world’s top fashion "influencers". The online university eCampus, which is being promoted by
football star Cristiano Ronaldo, is offering a new, three-year program to earn
a degree in social media influencing. Ronaldo, who is featured in the college’s
new publicity campaign, is also funding 36 student grants as part of his
commitment. "Nello
studio, come nello sport, per vincere ci vogliono determinazione, impegno,
preparazione". @Cristiano Ronaldo
è protagonista della nuova campagna pubblicitaria di #eCampus, l'unica università online con tutor anche in
presenza. #eCampusCR7 pic.twitter.com/ZHNLst8cZj — Università eCampus (@uni_ecampus) September 16, 2019 [In study, as in sport, determination, commitment and preparation are needed to win. @Cristiano Ronaldo is the protagonist of the new advertising campaign for #eCampus, the only online university with tutors in attendance.] The aim of the degree is to "fill the current
educational gap" and to help students gain the technical skills needed to
pursue a career as an influencer, the Italy-based university said on its
website. The eCampus degree will offer classes in fashion psychology, semiotics
and the philosophy of language, TV history, intercultural communication and
information technology, among others. The institution, which also offers
degrees in Engineering, Law, Arts and Psychology, has more than 30 000 students,
according to its website. The ranks of bloggers, Instagrammers and You-Tubers with
enough followers to earn a living as influencers are swelling. Companies,
brands and even countries are increasingly trying to tap into that social media
exposure by offering influencers lucrative marketing contracts. The success of
Ferragni’s The Blonde Salad, the world’s most popular fashion blog,
even became a case study at Harvard
Business School. Ferragni, probably the most well-known Italian influencer
globally, boasts 17.5 million followers on Instagram. Last month a three-day
run in Italy of a documentary about her life took in more 1.6 million euros and was the most watched documentary movie in the country. "Many people have misinterpreted the fact that trying
to be an influencer and knowing how to work with influencer marketing and
personal branding are not the same thing," Maurizio Pasquetti, head of
marketing at eCampus, said in a phone interview. "There is specific and
technical knowledge that you need to master." The news of the degree program sparked an intense debate on
social media in Italy, with people challenging the idea of an influencer as a
profession. Many also praised the offer as it can help young and inexperienced
people develop marketable skills in a country where youth unemployment tops
27%. 