Rock the Recession: How Successful Leaders
Prepare for, Thrive During, and Create Wealth After Downturns. By Jonathan Slain and Paul Belair The authors, like everyone in business, bar neophytes, and then only in some countries,
have been through a recession. And will again and again. A recession, in the context referred to in
this review, is "any big shock to a company’s system. When your key vendor
or key supplier cuts you off, you’re in a recession. When your partner
embezzles from you, you—my friend—are in a recession!" the authors
explain. Everyone in business, goes through this "recession"
experience in one form or another. That is pretty much guaranteed, but guidance
in the preparation for your next recession does not exist, the authors assert,
and so they wrote this book. (Peter Navarro wrote a book on this topic,The Well-Timed Strategy: Managing the
Business Cycle for Competitive Advantage, that I reviewed in 2006. Navarro’s book was more theoretical than practical
whereas this book is very practical.) The foundation idea is that you must lead and
upgrade the management of your business well before the recession hits. This
will not guarantee that you will not feel the shock, but at least you will be
well positioned to survive, and better still, thrive in a recession. Being robust Unprepared you will probably curl into a
foetal posture, and discombobulated, hold the position until it is over, or your
business is. Once you have worked through this book, you
will agree that recession planning should be considered as part of your basic
business hygiene. The prize is that if you get this planning right, you will be
calmly guided by a well thought-through plan to protect - at very least - the
company’s functioning capacity. At best, you will reap the advantages of
being counter-cyclical. Being financially robust and operationally sound, you
will be able to buy at an attractive price, a competitor or a complementary business
that has not prepared for the recession. You will be able to hire newly
available talent at good rates. You will be able to market and advertise when
others are cutting back and advertising is cheap. And so on. During a downturn many are scurrying around
aimlessly with no plan for surviving, let alone thriving. The goal of this book
is to prepare you to be able to grow and benefit during a recession. To do
this, the authors have identified 20 "recession readiness questions".
I will share some below that give a clear indication of the process. The initial questions are designed to give
you a solid understanding of your current position, and then to indicate what
you will need to achieve. "You must have a written plan in place. And you
must understand where you are now." So, the first recession-readiness
question is "Does your company have a
written action plan for the next recession or major shock to your company’s
system (e.g., losing your biggest customer)? The operative phrase is ‘a written
action plan’ carefully thought through when you are not in crisis. The
second is: Does your company’s leadership team understand and track basic economic
indicators? Your industry and location will determine what needs to be tracked.
Not knowing what you don’t know, is the most dangerous position of all. If there
is no insider who fits this role, that need not be a problem if you can
identify someone who has their finger on the pulse of the economy who you can
follow to avoid being blindsided. Against this background, collect your current
financial statements, and review your history over the last few years. "You’d
be surprised by how many owners don’t know this number or range, which is why
they never take the steps necessary to dramatically increase their company’s
value," the authors note. Additionally, your company’s leadership team must
understand the financial health of its major customers and vendors. Compile a list of your top twenty customers together
with your best estimate of their turnover, gross margin, and net profit, as
well as the same information for your most important suppliers. To endure a
recession well requires increasing operational efficiency, developing new
markets, and enlarging your asset base. This information will be very helpful. Operational strength To understand your own operational strength, it
is prudent to assess whether your company’s EBITDA margin is ‘best in class’
for your industry. This measure is a way to evaluate the company's performance alone,
without having to factor in financing, accounting or tax decisions. (If this is
not clear, some financial education may be necessary for the leadership!) Does your company’s leadership team regularly
meet with its bank? Is the company’s line of credit right for current and
future business needs? Waiting for your bank to contact you because
you are in breach of some financial arrangement is very poor practice. When you
do need the bank, that will count against you. Does your company have cash or debt available
to fund growth? Squirrels have a biological imperative to gather nuts for
winter; leaders don’t. "Does your leadership team spend at
least one day each quarter on strategic planning, including updating your
recession plan and doing a gap analysis of the talent, products, services, and
geographical presence you lack?" This is not to be confused with your
regular management meetings, where you assess recent performance. This is a
strategic meeting, and thinking strategically cannot be left to the annual
getaway. Warren Buffett said that when the tide goes
out, you can see who’s been swimming naked. If you’ve been working without a
strategic plan, you are swimming naked. Does your company’s leadership team have an
accurate method of tracking its backlog, its current work in progress, and its
pipeline of potential new work? Unless it includes an assessment of what was
supposed to happen, what actually happened, and then, what explains the
difference between these questions, you have achieved nothing. Only with this
background can you design what you should or should not do in the future. Is your company’s revenue diversified? Do you
serve some market sectors that are countercyclical or unaffected by recessions?
This must be part of your recession plan. You need to make every effort to
correct or mitigate this factor. The final recession plan which includes much beyond
what is written above, must include a tiered plan of action when the recession
hits. The first tier may well be to cut all discretionary spending: perks,
travel, subscriptions, etc. The second might entail far more drastic issues,
such as retrenching non-essential staff. When the time comes and you have to
invoke tier two, it is definitely not the time to consider who or what
positions are non-essential. At this stage you are not calm or clear – fear and
threat will see to that. You need to consider these matters in advance, which
is why you plan for a recession long in advance. The third tier is letting go
of talent. On the positive side, your recession plan
should have clear criteria and processes for which companies or assets to
target for acquisition. This will prevent you from making bad decisions rapidly
when good decisions could have been pre-planned. If your business is not currently in a
position of strength, you can still get to a position of strength before the
next recession - if you have the right plan. To reiterate: A recession plan is a written
document with planned action items. It’s created before it’s needed, not when it
is needed. It’s hard to read the label when you’re inside the jar. Readability  
      Light --+-- Serious Insights 
             High -+--- Low Practical              High
+---- Low *Ian Mann of Gateways consults
internationally on strategy and implementation and is the author of ‘Strategy
that Works’ and ‘The Executive Update.’ Views expressed are his own.