South
Africans are known to be a very forgiving people; it is a good thing. We’re also easily
fooled by mind games played on us by men and women in politics, as well as
those in the private sector who have colluded in state capture and other forms
of corruption, in partnership with them and unethical officials employed in the
public sector. This is not a good thing. It is as if
all one needs to do is throw a lot of stuff at us in order to confuse us into
believing that something is being done when nothing is being done - as one
could argue is happening with the Zondo Commission inquiry – or press an imaginary
fast-forward button on events happening in the country to make many lose focus
and stop connecting the dots. This can
probably explain the success with which people who damage our country’s economy
and once-promising social cohesion routinely get redeployed into new positions
in the public sector or are allowed to lie low for a while without much
consequence. We know
them; some head up important oversight committees of parliament, others have
been vested with new ministerial responsibilities, and another group is lying
low, enjoying the fruits of their crimes against the interests of our country. And then
there is the South African audit profession. It remains "tjoepstil",
hoping we forget, despite all the information that has come into the public
space, in recent years, revealing the enabler role some members of this
profession have played in state capture and other forms of corruption. It is not a
case of only one prominent firm being dragged through the mud. If the
audit profession really cared about reputation and the need to win the trust of
South Africans, it would be leading discussions – unprompted – about: Earlier
this year, the annual Brand Summit South Africa, which I convene, invited
members of the audit profession to come and have an open, public, conversation
about the matters above. Only the
much-respected Auditor-General’s Office and KPMG were prepared to come and
engage in the proposed difficult, uncomfortable, conversations. Other members
of the profession ostensibly preferred to have any such discussions only with
their peers, in safe locations, away from the glare of the media and the
public. KPMG It has to
be said that in the entire South African audit industry, KPMG received the most
negative exposure and reputational damage – deservedly so – for some of the
wrong done by people employed by it during the state capture economy. However,
under the leadership of Professor Wiseman Nkuhlu, its chairman, this firm has
come a long way in owning up to the wrongs that were done in its name. And, not
only has KPMG been willing to engage openly, it has also publicly stated the
steps it has put in place to deal with what happened and to improve its future
path. But time will tell, of course. In trying
to put a perspective to what happened, Professor Nkuhlu referred to the
importance of ‘public interest’ in the auditing profession, reminding members
of the accounting and auditing professions that it has been a mistake to place
emphasis on client interest, often at the expense of public interest, and to
only be concerned about acquiring and retaining lucrative clients. Many of the
people who enabled state capture and other forms of corruption to happen and to
last for as long as they have, benefiting from related crimes, are well
educated and professionally decorated professionals. Their
conduct has shown us that academic qualifications, no matter how colourful, are
nothing if the persons holding them are not ethically grounded and respectful
of the need to always consider public interest, especially in a country like
South Africa, where the massive negative legacy of apartheid and the vast
economic disparities separating our communities continue to stare us in the face. KPMG should
be progressively reintegrated into the mainstream, provided that it remains true
to its word and the laudable steps it has begun to take. But it cannot, alone,
be reasonably expected to provide South Africans with answers to the questions
raised above. The broader
South African audit profession – especially those members of it who seem to
think that remaining "tjoepstil", or quietly tiptoeing around the
room, will ensure that we forget its failure to protect public interest when
hundreds of billions of rand were stolen from us, must still come forward and
tell South Africans how it intends to address the issues raised and to do
things differently, going forward. We would be
complicit and have no one to blame but ourselves if we let them and their
accomplices in politics and government get away with what happened. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.