Transnet Port Terminals (TPT) and the Durban Chamber of Commerce recently announced the winners of the 2019 KZN Exporter of the Year Awards. The winner of the New, Small, and Medium Exporter Award, sponsored by the Small Enterprise Development Agency (SEDA KZN) was won by Imperial Armour. Finalists were Africa!Ignite; Minnie’s Food Enterprise; and Tribucraft.  The Large Exporter Award, sponsored by TPT, was won by Sappi Southern Africa. Sumitomo Rubber South Africa was a finalist in this category. The Africa Exporter Award, sponsored by Trade and Investment KZN (TIKZN) was won by Sumitomo Rubber South Africa, while Imperial ArmourSappi Southern Africa were finalists. The Service Providers Award, sponsored by Vodacom Business, was won by the Mediterranean Shipping Company. Evergreen Agency SA and Kuehne & Nagel South Africa were finalists. The Manufacturers Award, sponsored by TPT, was won by Imperial Armour, with Sappi Southern Africa and Sumitomo Rubber South Africa as finalists. Durban Chamber deputy president Gladwin Malishe said these awards aim to recognise and celebrate exporters in the province, to highlight the success of local businesses as well as stimulate the growth of the economy by encouraging other companies to strive for similar achievements in order for KZN to achieve inclusive and sustainable economic growth and development. “With the global economy in a state of flux and several developed economies becoming more protectionist, KwaZulu-Natal and our emerging exporters need to scout for non-traditional points of entry into the global market, which are more open and have more liberal trade policies and procedures such as China. This is an ideal time to visit a growth market like China if you have export aspirations hence the theme for our event being Shanghai Nights." At the Awards Transnet Port Terminals (TPT) acting chief executive Michelle Phillips launched the Emerging Exporters Development Programme, a joint initiative by TPT and the Durban Chamber to develop emerging exporters. The beneficiaries of the TPT and the Durban Chamber Emerging Exporters Development Programme are Get2Natural Beauty; Gugu Mobile Boutique; Samac Engineering Solutions; Siyazenzela Trailers & Truck Bodies; and Zikhe.