In a strongly worded statement, Judge
Lex Mpati lashed out at the latest claims by Dr Iqbal Survé, chairperson of Independent Media and
head of investment firm Sekunjalo, against public enterprises minister Pravin
Gordhan. In an
article published on Independent-owned IOL on Sunday, Survé accused Gordhan of trying to
influence the commission of inquiry into the Public Investment Corporation, and
that he wanted the commission to make “adverse findings” against Survé’s
companies. In response, Mpati, who
heads the PIC commission, said that the allegations “have no basis in fact”. “The Commission views the article in a serious light and as part
of an on-going attempt to discredit the work of the Commission, the integrity
of the Commissioners and an endeavour to influence its findings. “The Commission will not tolerate interference in its work from
any quarter. Nor will it countenance attempts to influence or intimidate it,
irrespective of who may attempt to do so," Mpati said. "The Commission will continue with its
work without fear or favour and reserves the right to take action, in
accordance with the regulations, against any party who seeks to interfere in
its work.” Read: Judge rubbishes Survé's claim that he is Gordhan's pal Survé’s Cape Town office was
raided by the financial regulator the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA)
on Wednesday morning. The raid presumably is related to an investigation into transactions
in AYO Technology – which is linked to Survé – for market manipulation. The PIC invested R4.3bn in AYO before
its listing on the JSE in December 2017, while AYO's assets were reportedly
worth far less than that. The corporation launched a court bid earlier in the year
to reclaim its investment. In
April, the Mpati commission heard that millions of rands from the PIC
investment into AYO went to two companies linked to Survé the
day after it was listed on the JSE. Survé has consistently denied any wrongdoing related
to AYO, and blamed this week’s raid on Gordhan. Survé alleges that he has "sufficient evidence" to show Gordhan was involved in the
raid, but that this
evidence will be presented at the "appropriate time". The minister lawyer hit back at the accusations on Thursday. “What the South African public knows
is that Mr Survé and his business entities have been the subject of the Mpati
Commission of Inquiry. The attempt at deflecting attention from this, by making
false and defamatory allegations against Minister Gordhan and others, will not
assist him and others in being held accountable for possible transgressions of
the law." In Sunday’s article, Survé claims that Gordhan’s statement shows that "he is either knowledgeable about the
Mpati Commission or has a role in influencing its outcomes". Compiled by Helena Wasserman 