South Africa has boosted its
position in the annual World Economic Forum's annual Global Competitiveness
Report, which ranks economies according to their ability to provide prosperity to their citizens,
and how productively a country uses its resources. After being judged the 67th  most competitive economy in 2018, SA rose seven places to 60
in  2019, to beat fellow
Brics members India (which fell 10 places to number 68, in part due to poor
health conditions) and Brazil (71st). China (24th) and
Russia (43rd) remain well ahead. The WEF’s annual report,
which has been issued since 1979, scores countries according to their institutions, infrastructure, ICT adoption, macroeconomic
stability, health, skills, product market, labour market, the financial system,
market size, business dynamism and innovation capability, and also surveys more
than 13,000 business executives for their views. It found that South Africa’s competitiveness regained
momentum after “the recent political landscape shift”, evidently referencing incoming
president Cyril Ramaphosa. SA’s “well-developed” equity, insurance and credit markets
all achieved a perfect score of 100. The financial sector as a whole was rated 19th
most competitive out of 141 countries. Scores on health improved, with 3.3
years added to the average healthy life expectancy since the last assessment. The country’s “institutional quality” also improved, with “remarkable
progress” in some areas – including when it comes to the balance of powers
across different state’s entities, which now ranks 16th in the
world. South Africa also improved its ratings on administrative efficiency of
the public sector (+6.3 places to 39th) and corporate governance (+3.3, 26th). But the WEF remains concerned about security (SA ranks 135th
out of 141 countries), while transparency (62nd) and government adaptability to
change (100th) are also below par. South Africa's rankings on various measures, according to the WEF. “Further, South Africa’s competitiveness is being held back
by relatively low business dynamism (61.9, 60th), which is inhibited by
insolvency regulation and administrative burdens to start a business, and a
persistently insufficient labour market flexibility (52.1, 111th). For
instance, flexibility of wage determination is limited (41.1, 134th) and hiring
foreign labour is difficult (40.6, 123rd). South Africa’s sensitivity to
exports of mineral resources is likely to hit the country’s economic outlook
and will make reducing unemployment (projected above 27%) challenging.” Against this backdrop, structural reforms are needed to
re-ignite the economy, the WEF said. With a score of 84.8 (+1.3), Singapore is the world’s most
competitive economy in 2019, overtaking the United States, which falls to
second place. Hong Kong (3rd), Netherlands (4th) and Switzerland (5th) round up
the top five. According
to the report, South Africa is the second most competitive economy in Africa after
the island nation of Mauritius.