The government has prioritised immigration reform to attract skilled workers to the country, president Cyril Ramaphosa confirmed in his latest newsletter, released on Monday morning. This has been an important part of finance minister Tito Mboweni's growth plan, which proposed friendlier immigration regulations for foreigners with tertiary qualifications from accredited institutions. In order to attract investment that will boost the SA economy, government is also working on improving business conditions through reforms such as an e-visa process and an electronic deeds registry system, Ramaphosa said in the newsletter. He stressed the importance of attracting foreign direct investment and he shared government's plans to improve the ease of doing business in the country. The president is currently in London, he will be addressing the Financial Times Africa Summit 2019 – which is a gathering of business people and investors. WATCH | Ramaphosa sings: 'If you believe and I believe, Africa will be saved' While former president Jacob Zuma is better known for breaking out in song with his trademark Umshini wami - President Cyril Ramaphosa proved on Sunday that he too can carry a tune. Ramaphosa highlighted government's aim to make SA the "destination of choice" for foreign direct investment. He explained that growing the economy requires more investment – from both local and international businesses. "We are using every available opportunity to reach out to investors to talk about the great business potential both in South Africa and across the African continent," he said. "To attract investment we need to make it easier to do business in South Africa. In a competitive global environment, investors are looking for countries that can provide stable and sustained returns, while minimising risks and cost," he added. In November, the second SA investment Conference will be held – as part of the plan to attract R1.2trn over five years. Last year the summit raised R300bn in committed investment. "We know that we need far-reaching reforms to achieve our target," Ramaphosa commented. As for the reforms being introduced - they include helping start-ups or entrepreneurs set up their businesses by making it easier to access funding through the use of a common application form across different development funding institutions. "We are working to make business easier for both the person starting out in their garage and for the multinational looking to open a new factory," Ramaphosa said. The president also recently signed into law the Electronic Deeds Registration System Act – which will make it easier to register and process deeds. "We are making it easier to start a business, register a property, deal with construction permits, pay taxes and trade across borders. "To promote greater efficiency, we are reducing the time it takes to grant licences and permits. We are working with business to ensure that the conditions attached to licences are not too onerous or costly," Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa added that he meets with leaders in business, labour and communities monthly to discuss how to make the SA economy more competitive. "These measures are important not only to business, which is seeking decent returns on investment, but also to unions, who want more jobs and better working conditions, and to communities, who want to see living standards rise," Ramaphosa said. As he concluded his newsletter he assured that SA is "steadily" becoming a better place to do business. The World Economic Forum recently ranked SA 60th among 141 economies, in terms of global competitiveness. SA has climbed seven places from its previous ranking and even surpassed India's ranking of 68, Fin24 previously reported. Ramaphosa commented that this is a "noteworthy" achievement within a "relatively short period of time".  Modi Government: Decoding The Wealth Paradox Recent reports have revealed a record breaking rise in how much money Indians were remitting abroad, suggesting growing anxieties about confidence in the economy. While recent data on foreign investment shows that the FDI in India continues to ste... Mineral Resources to withdraw from the McIntosh JV 02 Oct 2019 - Mineral Resources (ASX:MIN) has notified Hexagon Resources (ASX:HXG) that they are withdrawing from the McIntosh Joint Venture (MJV) at the end of the month. WATCH: The mini budget in under 3 minutes Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha gives an overview of what Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said about VAT, spending shortfalls and the economy in his maiden mini budget  speech in Parliament on Wednesday. IMF managing director forecasts growth 'slowdown' in the next year "In two years time, the world has moved from synchronized upswing  in other words, accelerating growth  to a synchronized slowdown", she said. IMF managing director forecasts growth 'slowdown' in the next year "In two years time, the world has moved from synchronized upswing  in other words, accelerating growth  to a synchronized slowdown", she said. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. POLITICS PODCAST: Ramaphosa vs the PP and the cost of the EFF's 'tantrum' AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, President Cyril Ramaphosa and Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan saga has taken centre stage again and the EFF's divorce from the DA. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. WATCH: 'The President is a dreamer' - MPs react to Ramaphosa's address President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered his second State of the Nation Address of the year before both Houses of Parliament... to mixed reactions. WATCH - Nene out, Mboweni in: here's everything you need to know President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday afternoon that former Reserve Bank Governor Tito Mboweni would be the new finance minister. WATCH: Delft resident asks ANC for his promised geyser as Ramaphosa campaigns President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday embarked on a door-to-door campaign in Cape Town ahead of the May 8 elections. President Cyril Ramaphosa speech marking 25 years of democracy South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa delivers a speech marking the 25th anniversary of advent of democracy in the country. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. WATCH: News24 analysis of Ramaphosa's 'feel-good' SONA News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the tone and substance of President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address. Foreign Portfolio Investors Pulled Out Over 6,200 Crores In Just 2 Weeks Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have withdrawn over Rs. 6,200 crore in just the first two weeks of October. FPIs are essentially those who invest in securities and other financial assets in an another country. FPIs pulling out a significant amo... WATCH | Ramaphosa jeered and booed at Mugabe memorial SA President Cyril Ramaphosa was booed by Zimbabweans as he took to the podium at former president Robert Mugabe's memorial. Ramaphosa went on to apologise for the xenophobic violence in South Africa. WATCH: We have heard the voices of our people - Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed supporters outside the party's Luthuli House headquarters in the Johannesburg CBD on Sunday to celebrate the ANC's victory. WATCH: Maimane says Cyril Ramaphosa should appear before Zondo commission amid Bosasa claims DA leader Mmusi Maimane says President Cyril Ramaphosa should appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH | Eight arrested as protesters block major CT intersection Eight protesters were bundled into a police can outside the Cullinan Hotel in Cape Town on Wednesday after a day of pickets and chanting for action to be taken to prevent gender based violence. WATCH: Ramaphosa welcomes record number of women ministers President Cyril Ramaphosa welcomed a record number of women ministers when he unveiled his new Cabinet on Wednesday evening. WATCH: Ramaphosa snubs media on Ekurhuleni campaign trail President Cyril Ramaphosa, conducted door-to-door campaigns and attended a mini rally in Tembisa on Thursday, but refused to speak to journalists who were trailing him on the campaign. WATCH: Jiving Ramaphosa gets down at Loftus President Cyril Ramaphosa took to the pitch at Loftus Versfeld after his official Inauguration ceremony and jived with a group of singers and dancers. Sussexes meet South Africa's President Ramaphosa Sussexes meet with South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Reality Check: Myth Of Tax Cuts Can the recent corporate tax cuts announced by the Finance Minister reverse the economic downturn by boosting investment?  Reality Check discusses. WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH | Prince Harry and Meghan Markle meet President Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Tshepo Motsepe welcomed the Duke and Duchess of Sussex at the official residence Mahlamba Ndlopfu in Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: 'Jealous down' - Cyril Ramaphosa and Julius Malema share light moment at parliament When President Cyril Ramaphosa ran into EFF leader Julius Malema as he exited the Old Assembly Chamber in parliament on Tuesday he greeted and congratulated him on the party's good election results. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: 'Ramaphosa is in trouble - DD Mabuza could be  the next president' - Malema Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, EFF leader Julius Malema said President Cyril Ramaphosa may face impeachment if he is found guilty for wrong-doing in the R500,000 Bosasa investigation by the public protector. When the president doubles your KPAs on national television - this is what you do This was the head of South African Tourism Sisa Ntshona's reality after President Cyril Ramaphosa's SONA announcement to increase its tourist numbers to 21-million a year by 2030. We caught up with him at Meetings Africa WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Ramaphosa says Mashaba is 'scared' of protesting Alex residents President Cyril Ramaphosa visited Alexandra in Johannesburg in his capacity as ANC president on Thursday, following last week's #TotalShutdown in the area. Ramaphosa steals show at summit: 'We need leadership, not leaders' South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. POLITICS PODCAST: The next chapter in SA politics unfolds AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, the spotlight is on the National Assembly as the next chapter in South African politics unfolds with Cyril Ramaphosa elected unopposed as the president of the republic. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH | Ramaphosa addresses gender-based violence protesters in Cape Town Protesters were left unimpressed when President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the crowd outside Parliament on Thursday. It came as crowds took to the streets for a second day, calling for action from the government on gender-based violence. WATCH: 'Let's not panic' - Ramaphosa on Eskom President Cyril Ramaphosa has told the country not to panic as rolling blackouts continue. Speaking on the campaign trail in Delft on the the Western Cape, he said "we are addressing the Eskom issue". WATCH: Opposition parties demand plans for the economy, jobs and land ahead of SONA President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered his second State of the Nation Address of the year on Thursday. PUBLIC PROTECTOR SPEAKS OUT! Public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane says president Cyril Ramaphosa's lawyers should litigating through the media. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. Industrial Output Shrinks To Minus 1.1%: How Can Economic Concerns Be Eased? Industrial growth shrank 1.1% in August, after a gap of 26 months, reinforcing fears of a slowing economy and deteriorating consumer sentiment. India's industrial output contracted in August due to weakness in the manufacturing and electricity sec... WATCH: We must get to the bottom of whether Ramaphosa mislead Parliament - Maimane Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane responds to news that President Cyril Ramaphosa will be taking the public protector's report on election campaign funding on judicial review. WATCH: Maimane slams Ramaphosa's 'conflicting messages' Speaking after President Cyril Ramaphosa's State of the Nation Address on Thursday night, DA leader Mmusi Maimane slammed Ramaphosa's "conflicting messages" around Eskom and other policy issues. Watch.