It is always interesting to observe our
African political elites getting together in various regional economic clubs. The
Southern African Development Community, the Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa, Community of Sahel-Saharan States, East African Community, Economic
Community of West African State, Intergovernmental Authority on Development,
and Economic Community of Central African States and the continental African
Union have discussions and make decisions that impact people's lives, with
little attempt to invite active citizen participation. They then travel to meet investors and
political leaders in places like Europe, North America, Asia, and elsewhere to give
undertakings on behalf of an Africa whose citizens are, by and large, mere
observers of decisions taken on their behalf, often without being consulted, only
learning about such decisions when they get reported in the media. The truth is that post-colonial African
leaders have, by and large, simply taken over from former colonial powers and
continued treating Africans as little people who have no opinion to give in
matters that affect their lives and future. They will continue to take short
cuts for as long as ordinary Africans allow them to. The era of decisions being
made at the top and handed down as fait accompli has to come to an end, at some
point. Empowered civil society is an asset But for this to happen, African civil
society groups across the continent must wake up, get organised, and demand
their space in decisions that involve them. Empowered African citizens would be
assets to democracies; not liabilities. It is only when citizen participation is
rendered mandatory across the continent – in the same way that we have
mandatory ‘public consultation processes’ in South Africa, that those who
attend multilateral forums on behalf of Africa can claim any legitimacy. Almost all of their counterparts from
other parts of the world, probably apart from China, act on citizen mandate. Even
the European Union, which the AU sought to emulate, came to be following
extensive citizen consultation in various constituent countries. It is because
of such consultation – through a referendum – that the UK is now standing just
inside the exit door to the EU. The Brexit factor The fact that the UK finds itself in its
current position should not offer argument for the status quo of almost zero
citizen consultation to continue in Africa. A different discussion can be had,
of course, as to the nature of the proposed citizen participation, the
structures/vehicles to be used at local level, and the extent to which
information made available to citizens has to enable them to make good,
empowering decisions about their own lives and future. Structures must be created, at local
level, that would offer space for African citizens to understand their world, to
make sense of what is at stake, and to consider the rationale for proposed
political and economic strategic directions. Africa is not homogenous We should also not be fooled. We must get
over the going assumption that this continent is homogenous in terms of
political and democratic traditions, cultures and practices, values, levels of academic
and civic education, media penetration, internet access and connectivity to the
outside world, the impact of rural versus urban divides on national political,
social, and economic life, etc. Taking the matter of human rights as an
example, especially the rights of LGBTIQ+ communities; freedom of expression
and freedom of the press; the influence of traditional leadership; or the importance
given to an array of ancient practices, e.g. witchcraft and the influence of dead
people on current and future life, etc.; different African countries tend to be
worlds apart on many of these issues. Few will disagree that some of the decisions
that get taken by political elites might have merit, but that is not the point.
The point is that if Africa is to advance into the future with an informed
citizenry – informed, active, and participative – it would stand a better
chance of having more accountable leaders who know that they are being watched,
and that they’re not in their positions to fulfil personal ambitions only, but
that they have the backing of the people who sent them there; people whose
aspirations they carry. African economic integration is no doubt
the right vision to aim for; and dreaming of a continent in which the movement
of goods and persons is rendered a lot more facile, is also a lovely ideal. But
what would that entail, in terms of national regional legislative frameworks on
some of the most basic democratic rights? Can African professionals easily move
from one country to another to do what they do best, when African countries
cannot agree on basics such as the rights mentioned above, and in a climate
where people can be arrested for being LGBTIQ+ or for expressing views that are
critical of those held by politicians, or for making fun of politicians? And given that only a few African
countries are a lot more attractive for migration than others, with the bulk of
them having citizens who will leave as soon as they can (for all the known
reasons), what measures would be put in place to ensure that potential
destinations for economic migrants are shielded from possible overruns? The potential that lies in Africa to lead
and even put Europe and others to shame - as implied by South African president
Cyril Ramaphosa in his recent address in London - cannot be realised while the
gulf that separates ordinary Africans from the political elites that lord it
over their affairs, often without consequence, remains so large. And ordinary
Africans cannot be the self-driven and positive contributors to the future of Africa
– urged on by a shared desire to positively change its reputational fortunes to
make it increasingly attractive – while they have very little say in the affairs
of their continent. * Solly Moeng is brand reputation management adviser and CEO of strategic corporate communications consultancy DonValley Reputation Managers. Views expressed are his own.