South African mining executives, investors and officials
gather in the nation’s economic hub for the Joburg Indaba conference to discuss
the industry’s investment prospects after years of regulatory uncertainty. Overall, it’s been a good year for South African miners as
the rally in iron ore, gold and platinum-group metal prices boosted earnings
and put dividends back on the agenda. Still, looming labour disputes, a
reliance on a weak currency and the slow demise of gold mining leave the
industry with plenty of challenges. Investors need stability Anglo American Chief Executive Officer Mark Cutifani
said there is no shortage of geological opportunities in South Africa, but to
attract mining investment requires political stability and regulatory clarity.
While encouraged by positive improvements in the political arena, the "parlous
state" of public finances remains a challenge, according to Cutifani. The
CEO said companies must work with the government to tackle "unresolved
issues" in the nation’s Mining Charter, which seeks to address
inequalities resulting from apartheid. The multiplier effect of growing the mining industry – which
currently supports about 4.5 million people – could drive a "wholesale
economic renewal of South Africa." Still, Cutifani cautioned that abundant
and high-grade deposits won’t guarantee investment. "There are many other
factors besides mineral endowment that influence where investors decide to put
their money, all of which drive reassurance to investors about the security of
their investment over time," he said. Good PGM fundamentals Anglo American Platinum CEO Chris Griffith said fundamentals
for platinum-group metals will remain good for a "number of years". The improving market has enabled producers to increase their profitable supply
and has drawn greater interest in platinum stocks from international investors,
he said. The company known as Amplats is studying a number of projects for its "next
wave of growth," according to the CEO. The regulatory environment in South Africa has improved, but
the government needs to resolve the issue of community disruptions around
mines, which is leading to huge losses for producers, Griffith said. Labour
disruptions, crime and xenophobia are deterring investors, while policy
differences between government and ruling African National Congress are also a
concern, he said.