SARS boss Edward Kieswetter has inherited a "broken" organisation and it is impacting tax revenue collections, according to tax experts. At a briefing this week, ahead of the mini-budget, tax experts of Mazars weighed in on the current status at SARS. According to data from Treasury, revenue collections at August 2019 are just more than a third (37%) of the revenue target of R1.422trn for the 2019/20 year. Tax experts have said this is a combination of a sluggish economy and the fact that Kieswetter has to rebuild capabilities at SARS which were eroded during the reign of former boss Tom Moyane. "The morale is extremely low. There are people who are extremely hurt by what has happened," Mazars national head of taxation services Mike Teuchert told journalists at the briefing. WATCH: Public Protector reopens investigation into "rogue unit" Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has reopened an investigation into the so-called "rogue unit" that operated at the South African Revenue Service between 2007 and 2015. Teuchert was among industry players who met with Kieswetter following his first 100 days at SARS. Speaking on the engagement with Kieswetter, Teuchert said that the commissioner had taken time to understand the state of the organisation to take it forward. Now that Kieswetter has identified the issues, he is slowly addressing them, he added. Kieswetter has also been cognisant of implementing the Nugent Commission's recommendations to help turnaround the tax agency, by suspending staff implicated in bringing down the organisation. So far three officials have exited SARS, Fin24 previously reported. Work is also being done to improve SARS' internal fraud discovery processes, Teuchert said. "We have a capable person heading up an organisation and who is starting to assemble a capable team. It is a long game for him but he is slowly starting to put the right steps in place to become an effective organisation," said Teuchert. When asked what Kieswetter could do to improve capabilities at SARS, Teuchert and Mazars tax partners Bernard Sacks and Graham Molyneux shared several views: 1. Recruiting capable staff Teuchert noted that SARS has lost "good" and capable people in the past and now Kieswetter has to replace them. "He (Kieswetter) must pay attention to get the right people on the bus, in the right seats." Teuchert commented that apart from ensuring SARS becomes an attractive employer, it will also have to make sure the people recruited have the necessary experience to work at an organisation as sophisticated as SARS. "A certain amount of training and experience is needed to get them (new recruits) up to speed," he said. 2. Developing digital capabilities One of the big things Kieswetter has been championing is making it easy for taxpayers to comply with regulations by introducing initiatives to make the filing of their returns more convenient, Teuchert said. The e-filing system has been adjusted to be more user-friendly and responsive, and SARS launched an app to assist users in filing their returns. "He (Kieswetter) is creating an environment in which it is easy to comply, because he fundamentally believes people want to comply," Teuchert said. He added that Kieswetter is aware some people would not be open to complying and want to avoid paying taxes. Even though SARS has promoted the e-filing platform for taxpayers to file returns, it has experienced a few glitches, Fin24 previously reported.  "SARS made changes recently which were not well effected," Teuchert commented. SARS should work on enhancing the e-filing platform and effect the changes successfully, he explained. It appears the current system cannot handle the volume of 14 million taxpayers, he added. 3. Public trust Molyneux shared views that SARS should work on restoring the confidence of taxpayers in the system. "People have been dealt with poorly by SARS," he said. Part of this includes building relationships with corporate taxpayers. Molyneux suggested the large Business Centre, recently reestablished by Kieswetter, can help in this regard. Sacks added that Kieswetter acknowledged that there is a dent in public trust which needs to be restored, both externally and within the organisation. 4. Collaborating with international tax authorities Teuchert shared that SARS should play an increasing role in collaborating with other global tax revenue agencies through the automatic exchange of information programmes. This means SARS can receive offshore third-party financial data from other tax authorities, and in turn provide data to other authorities. Being able to exchange information will equip SARS in countering negative risks of tax avoidance. "SARS has been on the programme and they need to up their game on using big data to get corroborating evidence from other sources," Teuchert said. 5. Cracking down on organised crime Sacks added that Kieswetter is "up against" organised crime, especially in the space of illicit trade. "I do not think it's something SARS will have to deal with on their own. They would need assistance from the criminal justice system," Sacks said. He stressed that it is important to purge the organisation of all corruption. Money Monitor: Company cellphones may cause new tax headache New guidelines from Canada Revenue Agency suggest employers may have to look at how much of the cost of company- supplied electronic devices can be attributed to their commercial activities.  While there's a potential for use of company-supplied p... Income Tax Notice To Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa's Wife A notice has been sent to Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa's wife Novel S Lavasa for discrepancies in income tax filings, sources told NDTV. The Income Tax department has sought information "related to foreign exchange", the sources said. In a s... I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided conc... I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided conc... DEA Secy: Fiscal Deficit Target Intact DEA Secy said that they will achieve targets for direct tax collection and will have som short fall for the Indirect Tax. A good balancing act done by govt in Budget 2019: Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision From the union budget this year, the overall fiscal deficit targets are manageable without any major slippages. Corporate and indirect tax collection targets look realistic & achievable. FM gives farm income support From the union budget this year, the overall fiscal deficit targets are manageable without any major slippages. Corporate and indirect tax collection targets look realistic & achievable. Fiscal deficit target in-line with expectations: Moodys Get an overview on the budget. Moodys says, Fiscal deficit target is in-line with expectations. Expect the government to move forward on the fiscal consolidation roadmap.Transfer to farmers and income tax cuts to make fiscal consolidation challe... Nirmala Sitharaman To Present Her First Budget Today, Here's What To Expect Steps to drive the economy out of five-year low along with tax relief for middle classes may be on the cards as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman delivers her first budget today, balancing growth requirements and fiscal constraints. Ms Sitharama... Tax For Wealthy, Focus On Poor In Nirmala Sitharaman's Budget Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman raised taxes for the super-rich and hiked duties on fuel, gold and automobile parts in her first Budget on Friday, in measures aimed at tackling a five-year low in growth while tightening fiscal consolidation. T... Corporate Tax Cut To 25.2% To Spur Growth, Markets Celebrate The centre today reduced corporate tax on domestic firms in a bid to boost the sluggish economy, hurt by slowing demand across sectors, especially manufacturing that is among the highest contributors to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The market... 4.25 Crores Cash Found In Raids On Karnataka Congress Leader: Officials Over Rs. 4 crore in cash was found by Income Tax officials during raids at multiple places linked to former Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara and his associates since yesterday, officials said this morning. Rs. 4.25 crore in cash has ... EU Presidential Debate: 'A tax haven is a place where everyone pays their taxes,' says Vestager Candidates in the race to replace Jean-Claude Juncker took aim at tech giants on the subject of tax at a special debate in Brussels on Wednesday night. Cristiano Ronaldo's tax woes add $3.7 mln fine Soccer icon Cristiano Ronaldo will be fined $3.7 million after settling a tax evasion case with Spanish authorities, but the total charges could go up to over $21 million by the time the dust settles. Army Backs Plan To Tax Disability Pension, Says Not For "Tax Exemption" The Indian Army today endorsed the government's decision to tax pensions given to personnel superannuated from the service.The government, however, said it will not tax pensions paid to soldiers who suffered disabling injuries in the line of duty. Tax Experts On Corporate Tax Measures Announced By Government Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures on Friday to revive sagging investment in the economy, including a cut in corporate taxes. Tax experts speak to NDTV on how the measures will benefit new investments. "Will Boost Make In India": Nirmala Sitharaman On Corporate Tax Cut The government today reduced the income tax rate for companies by almost 10 percentage points to 25.17 per cent and offered a lower rate of 17.01 per cent for new manufacturing firms to boost economic growth from a six-year low. Finance Minister N... "Tax Base Will Broaden": Executive Vice-Chairperson Of Apollo Hospitals To NDTV The Modi government announces arguably its most decisive step in combating a slowdown that has taken the country's GDP growth rate down from 8 per cent to a six year low of 5 per cent. Corporate tax rates in India - among the highest in the world ... Sensex Clocks Biggest Single-Day Gain In Over A Decade Domestic stock markets skyrocketed on Friday with the Sensex index clocking its biggest single-day gain in more than a decade, after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a cut in corporate tax rate for companies. The Sensex zoomed as much... Sensex Jumps 1,950 Points, Nifty Tops 11,250 After Corporate Tax Cut omestic stock markets registered sharp gains to nearly two-month highs on Friday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a cut in corporate tax rate for domestic companies and new manufacturing firms. The S&P BSE Sensex index soared as... WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba. Congestion tax? The Grattan Institute is wrong, Constance says NSW Transport Minister Andrew Constance speaks to reporters in Sydney, fielding a question on a tax on drivers coming into the city. Mr Constance rejects the Grattan Institute's recommendation that congestion charging for the morning and afternoon... Corporate Tax Rate To Be Cut For Domestic Firms, New Manufacturing Firms Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday that the government has decided to lower the corporate tax rate on domestic companies and new manufacturing firms. In a press briefing in Goa, Nirmala Sitharaman said that with this change, the ef... India gives companies $20.5 bln tax break India's government slashed corporate taxes on Friday, giving a surprise $20.5 billion break aimed at reviving private investment and lifting growth from a six-year low. ANZ (ASX:ANZ) reduces price on OnePath P&I sale to IOOF 17 Oct 2019 - ANZ (ASX:ANZ) has reduced the price for the sale of its OnePath Pensions & Investments business and Aligned Dealer Groups to IOOF Holdings (ASX:IFL) from $975 million to $850 million. Labor to tax as far as the eye can see: NSW Treasurer NSW Treasurer Dominic Perrottet speaking to media at NSW Parliament in Sydney about the economic track record of his government. Perrottet says his government has taken the state so much further than where it was eight years ago and attacks Labor ... Retirees have added reason to file with CRA This is the time of year when procrastinators begin to fret about filing their income tax forms with Canada Revenue Agency by April 30. Of course, there are many reasons to file on time  such as avoiding expensive late fees and receiving tax refu... The Tax Free Tour Where do multinationals pay taxes and how much? Gaining insight from international tax experts, VPRO's Backlight takes a look at tax havens, the people who live there and the routes used to avoid tax globally. U.S. may bite back after France taxes tech firms France has voted to put an extra 3% tax on tech firms, and Washington is already thinking about whether to retaliate. How America's Marginal Tax System Actually Works Freshman Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has proposed a 70 percent income tax on the super-rich. But how it would apply to our marginal tax system? GST Rates Cut On Hotel Room Tariffs, Tax Hiked On Caffeinated Drinks The all-powerful GST Council on Friday more than doubled the tax on caffeinated beverages to 40 per cent and slashed the rate on hotel room tariffs. Briefing reporters after a meeting of the panel, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the GST ... Albany Steps Closer to Releasing Trump's State Taxes After Assembly Vote The New York Assembly voted in favor of the TRUST Act on Wednesday, a legal provision that would require the commissioner of taxation and finance to cooperate with congressional investigations   including the release of President Trump's state ta... Hey, Why Am I Paying All This Income Tax? We cover the history of income tax in American from the 1700s until now. Are you happy with what you receive for your income tax? Hey, Why Am I Paying All This Income Tax? We cover the history of income tax in American from the 1700s until now. Are you happy with what you receive for your income tax? Is The Government Doing Enough To Revive The Economy? Veteran journalist Ashutosh and political analyst Geeta Bhatt debate on whether the steps taken by the government are enough to counter the economic slowdown in India.    From corporate tax cuts and repo rate cuts to capital infusion for the banki... Investec completes $84 million placement 27 Sep 2019 - Investec Australia Property Fund (ASX:IAP) has announced the successful completion of its fully underwritten institutional placement to raise $84 million. NSW Premier shoots down congestion tax NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian speaking to media in Sydney's west about a new report suggesting a congestion tax would ease traffic woes in the CBD to the same extent as billion dollar road projects. The premier rules out the move and says it gets... Frydenberg on the attack after Treasury's $387b costing Treasurer Josh Frydenberg speaks to reporters in Melbourne after the coalition released Treasury costings of Labor's combined tax policies on Thursday night, the day the election campaign was called."Today the Australian people find out the true c... Few americans see savings over Trumps tax law: Poll Only one in five U.S. taxpayers expect to pay less income tax this year as a result of the tax reform law passed in 2017 by Republicans who promised big savings for everyday Americans, according to a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released on Friday. Money Monitor: How to claim new climate action incentive Personal tax experts are reminding Canadians to claim all of the tax credits they may be eligible for when they file their income tax return this year. Here are some tax credit tips you might be eligible to claim for on your income tax return this... AP Explains: What Tesla price cuts mean for demand Tesla made about 9,300 more vehicles than it delivered last year, raising concerns among industry analysts that inventory is growing as demand for the company's electric cars may be starting to wane. AP Reporter Tom Krisher explains. Rural Push will Boost Godrej Agrovet & Godrej Consumer: Adi Godrej Godrej Group Chairman Adi Godrej gives his opinion on the budget saying it has laid foundations for long term growth. He also added that he would've preferred stimulus to boost growth and called the fiscal deficit target reasonable. Fiscal stimulus needed to generate consumption: Saugata Bhattacharya, Axis Bank Saugata Bhattacharya, Senior VP and Economist at Axis Bank, talks about his expectations from the upcoming Union Budget. He says expectations are high amid the huge mandate for the new government and markets slowdown. He says a fiscal stimulus is ... I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh FM Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided concessions on int... Americans shocked by impact of new tax law The first tax filing season under the new federal tax law is proving to be surprising, confusing  and occasionally frightening  for some Americans, especially those accustomed to getting money back from the government. Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer announces proposed benefit for new parents Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer is promising to provide a tax credit for new parents receiving federal benefits. Scheer says this federal tax benefit will give new parents $4,000 while they take time off work. He says he plans to introduce this ... 2020 hopefuls release taxes in contrast to Trump Democratic presidential candidates Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Elizabeth Warren have released their tax filings ahead of Tax Day in the U.S., as they continue to push President Donald Trump to do the same.