United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson is talking to MPs as he tries to build a majority in Parliament for the Brexit agreement he reached with the European Union on Thursday. But rebels expelled from his own Conservative Party are moving to postpone the decisive vote, forcing the prime minister to seek a further extension from the bloc. French President Emmanuel Macron added to the pressure on MPs weighing how to vote when he told reporters in Brussels that a further extension shouldn’t be granted if Parliament rejects the deal. Carney Says Brexit Deal Is 'Good News' for UK Bank of England Governor Mark Carney welcomed Boris Johnson's Brexit deal, saying it could lead to a pick up in economic growth. Speaking in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Washington on Friday, Carney said the UK and European Union reaching a deal is "good news" as it allows the country to enter a transition period before leaving and avoid a no-deal divorce. Investment is likely to recover if the agreement is approved by Parliament, he said. While that would make monetary policy "a little more interesting", he said it doesn’t necessarily mean the BOE would hike interest rates. Johnson Urges End to Exhausting, Divisive Process Boris Johnson appealed to MPs to vote for his deal on Saturday, asking them to imagine the feeling of moving on after more than three years of wrangling with the EU. "I just kind of invite everybody to imagine what it could be like tomorrow evening, if we have settled this, and we have respected the will of the people, because we will then have a chance to to move on," he said in an interview with BBC TV. "This has been a long, exhausting and quite divisive business". Johnson said his Brexit deal is "fantastic" for Northern Ireland, because it "leaves the EU with the rest of the UK, can take part in free trade deals, there aren't any tariff barriers". He denied he had broken promises to the DUP in striking his agreement. In a separate interview with ITV, Johnson promised a “deep and special partnership” with the EU that would be based on a “jumbo free trade agreement.” He also said he would provide assurances on environmental protections and workers’ rights -- issues of concern to Labour MPs considering backing him.