The French economy supported by structural key strengths, a trend to create businesses as well as an evolution towards a carbon-free economy. Business France and the French Treasury Directorate recently released  the 2019 France Attractiveness Scoreboard.  Published for the 10th year in a row, it brings together a wide array of economic data, compiled as indicators into the attractiveness of France, comparing its performances with 13 other countries. France enjoys excellent connections to worldwide networks. Businesses set up in France enjoy high-quality telecommunications infrastructure, with the highest fixed broadband penetration rate among the countries in the sample and one of the highest wireless rates (ranked second). According to the United Nations E-Government Survey 2018, France is ranked ninth in the world for e-government (fifth in Europe), and fourth in our sample. The enterprise start-up rate across the whole French economy was 10% in 2017, ranking France third after the United Kingdom and Poland. In manufacturing, this rate was 7.3%, with the rate having remained above 7% since 2009. Growth has been negative in German industry since 2013. In the manufacturing industry, France had the lowest increase in unit labour costs of the entire sample in 2018 (+0.1%). France’s cost competitiveness in R&D activities has strengthened since 2008, with France offering the world’s most beneficial tax treatment for research and development expenditure by businesses. Electricity rates are especially attractive for companies operating in France, and are among the most competitive in Europe due to careful management of electricity generation and the national grid. Green growth also bears economic and job opportunities, especially in green energy. France was Europe’s third-largest employer in the renewable energy sector in 2017, with 140,700 jobs (0.5% of its working population). “Our country is improving on many of the main attractiveness factors, as seen from its progress in various international rankings. We have seen particular improvements in innovation, cost competitiveness and corporate finance," says Christophe Lecourtier, CEO of Business France. France has been the leading European country for hosting industrial projects for over 15 years. According to Pascal Cagni, chair of Business France and ambassador for international investment, the importance placed by the government on the low-carbon economy and technological innovation indicates the way forward for the many start-ups that form part of our innovative economy. Business France is the national agency supporting the international development of the French economy, responsible for fostering export growth by French businesses, as well as promoting and facilitating international investment in France.