Tax revenue collection by the South African Revenue Service may be R50bn short for the current financial year, and tax experts have suggested this may be because new boss Edward Kieswetter is preoccupied with having to restore capacity at the institution, following the legacy of former commissioner Tom Moyane. At a breakfast briefing this week, tax experts of audit, accountancy, advisory and tax services firm Mazars shared predictions on the mini budget, due to be announced later this month by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni. SARS is tasked with collecting R1.422trn for the fiscus. Collections over the past five months are tracking at 37% of the target, at R519bn. While the budget for tax collections on personal income and profits is around R820bn, collections were tracking 37% at R300 bn in August. Excise duty tax was tracking its R42bn target by 39% with collections at R16.6bn. VAT collections are 36% or at R129bn of the R360bn target. Corporate income tax is at 34% or R78bn of the R229bn target. Mazars tax partner Graham Molyneux posited that the low tax could collections could be the function of a "sluggish economy" or a lack of efficiency at SARS. In response Mike Teuchert, national head of taxation services, said that Kieswetter himself is worried that SARS might not reach the target. VAT refunds Despite a 1% increase in the VAT rate last year, collections have been disappointing, Teuchert lamented. Part of this is attributed to the legacy of VAT refunds which need to be paid out. The actual refunds made appear to be more than what has been budgeted for, he said. "I'm not sure if that is just a state of the economy or a legacy from the prior periods," he said. Tax Partner Bernard Sacks commented that the low collections from VAT could reflect that the economy is "grinding to a halt". Or, alternatively, exports are improving – exporting businesses can claim refunds, which could explain the spike. At the current rate of tax collections, the shortfall could be R140bn, Teuchert warned. However, he went on to explain that there are usually more tax collections in the latter half of the year than the first half of the year – ultimately there will be a shortfall and the current market consensus is R50bn. Government has limited options when it comes to funding the shortfall. Its alternatives are to incur more debt – which the country can't afford – or reduce expenditure, which is a strategy government has taken in recent budgets but have not shown outcomes. Teuchert expects Mboweni to provide more insight on how to plug the gap at the mini budget. Moyane legacy Referring to comments made by Kieswetter, Teuchert said SARS is facing staffing challenges, as well as financial constraints impacting its ability to collect revenue. "The organisation does not have enough money to reach collection targets," Teuchert said. Teuchert was among several other industry experts who met with Kieswetter following his first 100 days in office. Kieswetter had engaged with various industry bodies and stakeholders that SARS relies on. Of the engagement Teuchert said Kieswetter was frank that the organisation is not in a good state. "He spent his first 100 days understanding the status of SARS," Teuchert said, adding: "He has been given a broken organisation." Of the Moyane legacy, Teuchert said: "The morale is extremely low. There are people who are extremely hurt by what has happened." Teuchert, however, added that he left the engagement with Kieswetter feeling extremely positive that the organisation could be turned around. Tax Experts On Corporate Tax Measures Announced By Government Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures on Friday to revive sagging investment in the economy, including a cut in corporate taxes. Tax experts speak to NDTV on how the measures will benefit new investments. "Will Boost Make In India": Nirmala Sitharaman On Corporate Tax Cut The government today reduced the income tax rate for companies by almost 10 percentage points to 25.17 per cent and offered a lower rate of 17.01 per cent for new manufacturing firms to boost economic growth from a six-year low. Finance Minister N... I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided conc... I-T exemption limit hiked to Rs 5 lakh Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presenting the Interim Budget for 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha doled out tax sops to middle class including doubling of income tax exemption limit to Rs 5 lakh and raising standard deduction to Rs 50,000 and provided conc... India gives companies $20.5 bln tax break India's government slashed corporate taxes on Friday, giving a surprise $20.5 billion break aimed at reviving private investment and lifting growth from a six-year low. Fiscal deficit target in-line with expectations: Moodys Get an overview on the budget. Moodys says, Fiscal deficit target is in-line with expectations. Expect the government to move forward on the fiscal consolidation roadmap.Transfer to farmers and income tax cuts to make fiscal consolidation challe... Corporate tax to be reduces to 18%: Naushad Forbes Naushad Forbes, Co-Chairman, Forbes Marshall, said one of the topics covered in the meeting was taxation. He said there was recommendation to reduce corporate tax to 18% without any exemption. He said if the three principles of wide coverage, low ... Income Tax Notice To Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa's Wife A notice has been sent to Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa's wife Novel S Lavasa for discrepancies in income tax filings, sources told NDTV. The Income Tax department has sought information "related to foreign exchange", the sources said. In a s... Mayne Pharma report net loss after tax of $134m 12 Oct 2018 - Pharmaceutical company Mayne Pharma (ASX:MYX) reported financial year 2018 revenue of $530 million, adjusted EBITDA of $165 million and reported a net loss after tax of $134 million. DEA Secy: Fiscal Deficit Target Intact DEA Secy said that they will achieve targets for direct tax collection and will have som short fall for the Indirect Tax. DTC Panel For Relief To Individual Taxpayers, Against I-T Surcharge: Sources A government-appointed panel on Monday submitted its report to overhaul the six-decades-old Income-Tax Act. While the details of the report are not disclosed, sources have told BTVI that the panel has suggested changes in the slab for personal inc... 4.25 Crores Cash Found In Raids On Karnataka Congress Leader: Officials Over Rs. 4 crore in cash was found by Income Tax officials during raids at multiple places linked to former Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara and his associates since yesterday, officials said this morning. Rs. 4.25 crore in cash has ... Albany Steps Closer to Releasing Trump's State Taxes After Assembly Vote The New York Assembly voted in favor of the TRUST Act on Wednesday, a legal provision that would require the commissioner of taxation and finance to cooperate with congressional investigations   including the release of President Trump's state ta... Sensex Jumps 1,950 Points, Nifty Tops 11,250 After Corporate Tax Cut omestic stock markets registered sharp gains to nearly two-month highs on Friday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a cut in corporate tax rate for domestic companies and new manufacturing firms. The S&P BSE Sensex index soared as... Addressing climate crisis requires change in tax system: IMF's Georgieva Addressing the climate crisis will require a change in national tax systems says IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva. Corporate Tax Rate To Be Cut For Domestic Firms, New Manufacturing Firms Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday that the government has decided to lower the corporate tax rate on domestic companies and new manufacturing firms. In a press briefing in Goa, Nirmala Sitharaman said that with this change, the ef... What is the point of Labor: Greens leader sprays ALP over tax support Greens Leader Richard Di Natale addressing reporters in Canberra on Friday after the governments tax cuts passed the Senate late on Thursday. Di Natalie has launched a spray at the Senate crossbench and Labor for backing the Morrison governments... Morrison quizzed on tax cuts Prime Minister Scott Morrison in Perth ays he wants Australians to "keep more of what they earn" amid reports the federal government is considering further income tax cuts.Asked about the report, Mr Morrison says "I have always championed persona... Corporate tax rate should be cut to 18% sans exemption: Naushad Forbes, Forbes Marshall Naushad Forbes, Co-Chairman, Forbes Marshall, said one of the topics covered in the meeting was taxation. He said there was recommendation to reduce corporate tax to 18% without any exemption. He said if the three principles of wide coverage, low ... How Prohibition Led to Income Taxes Income taxes are one of the most hotly debated topics in American politics - but do you know why we have them? Cheddar explains why we can blame Prohibition for the existence of the federal income tax. How America's Marginal Tax System Actually Works Freshman Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has proposed a 70 percent income tax on the super-rich. But how it would apply to our marginal tax system? Budget with BTVI: People share their suggestions on tax reforms From exemption parameters and income tax slabs to GST reforms as well as creation of tax haven, people share their expectations a day ahead of Modi 2.0's first budget. Sydney Airport see profit fall on passenger numbers and Danish dispute 15 Aug 2019 - Sydney Airport (ASX:SYD) cut costs and reduced staff numbers after its half year results show a 90 per cent drop in profit after income tax to $17.3 million. Irish premier promises five years of income tax cuts Irish premier Leo Varadkar has promised five years of income tax cuts as well as more spending on education and health.He said it is "unfair" people on average incomes pay the highest rate of tax. Replacing Income-Tax Act With Direct Taxes Code A task force has submitted a fresh report on Direct Taxes Code to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. While details of the report are not yet public, the idea behind the DTC is to make direct taxation easier, progressive and broad based. Given th... What the new income tax cuts mean Scott Morrison has secured a major victory on income tax cuts, with the government winning the crossbench support it needs to pass its full $158 billion package. Budget 2019: Electric Vehicles To Get More Affordable The NDA 2.0 government made some major announcements for pushing electric mobility in India as part of the Union Budget 2019. While the Indian auto sector did not witness any dramatic changes in tax norms, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recom... France unveils plans for its GAFA tax, a new taxation on digital companies It's "the tax of the 21st Century": French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire unveils France's draft bill for a revenue tax digital giants Union Budget, taxation, and divestment with Revenue Secy & DIPAM Secy Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and DIPAM Secretary Atanu Chakraborty in an exclusive interaction with BTVIs Siddharth Zarabi delve deep into the tenets of the Union Budget. Pandey says the government has estimated a growth of 17% for direc... Is The Middle Class Angry With Narendra Modi-Led NDA Govt? The government has made a conscious decision to raise taxes on fuel in spite of low global oil prices. The pay commission has raised salaries, but high income tax rates have taken away much of the gains. The hurried imposition of GST has added fue... Wanted To Give Certainty To Taxpayers Who Are On Low Bracket: CBDT Chairman To BTVI CBDT Chairman Sushil Chandra, and CBIC Chairman PK Das, speak exclusively to BTVIs Executive Editor Siddharth Zarabi, on direct taxes, hike in exemption limit, increase in standard deduction, Customs Act, GST reduction on items, and more. Wanted To Give Certainty To Taxpayers On Low Bracket: CBDT Chairman To BTVI CBDT Chairman Sushil Chandra, and CBIC Chairman PK Das, speak exclusively to BTVIs Executive Editor Siddharth Zarabi, on direct taxes, hike in exemption limit, increase in standard deduction, Customs Act, GST reduction on items, and more. Albanese calls for bigger middle income tax cuts sooner - says tax cuts for high incomes can wait Package of Albanese presser on the government's tax plan. Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese says that Labor will not support the final stage of the government's tax cuts to high income earners. Albanese is speaking to the media from Melbourne whe... EU Presidential Debate: 'A tax haven is a place where everyone pays their taxes,' says Vestager Candidates in the race to replace Jean-Claude Juncker took aim at tech giants on the subject of tax at a special debate in Brussels on Wednesday night. Cristiano Ronaldo's tax woes add $3.7 mln fine Soccer icon Cristiano Ronaldo will be fined $3.7 million after settling a tax evasion case with Spanish authorities, but the total charges could go up to over $21 million by the time the dust settles. Corporate Tax Cut To 25.2% To Spur Growth, Markets Celebrate The centre today reduced corporate tax on domestic firms in a bid to boost the sluggish economy, hurt by slowing demand across sectors, especially manufacturing that is among the highest contributors to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The market... A good balancing act done by govt in Budget 2019: Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision From the union budget this year, the overall fiscal deficit targets are manageable without any major slippages. Corporate and indirect tax collection targets look realistic & achievable. Army Backs Plan To Tax Disability Pension, Says Not For "Tax Exemption" The Indian Army today endorsed the government's decision to tax pensions given to personnel superannuated from the service.The government, however, said it will not tax pensions paid to soldiers who suffered disabling injuries in the line of duty. FM gives farm income support From the union budget this year, the overall fiscal deficit targets are manageable without any major slippages. Corporate and indirect tax collection targets look realistic & achievable. Nirmala Sitharaman To Present Her First Budget Today, Here's What To Expect Steps to drive the economy out of five-year low along with tax relief for middle classes may be on the cards as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman delivers her first budget today, balancing growth requirements and fiscal constraints. Ms Sitharama... Tax For Wealthy, Focus On Poor In Nirmala Sitharaman's Budget Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman raised taxes for the super-rich and hiked duties on fuel, gold and automobile parts in her first Budget on Friday, in measures aimed at tackling a five-year low in growth while tightening fiscal consolidation. T... Call BTVI Special: Your Tax, Your Returns The Income Tax Authorities have extended the deadline to file income tax returns by a month till 31st August. On todays special show, experts Surabhi Marwah, Tax Partner, People Advisory Services, EY India and Akhil Chandna, Director, Grant Thorn... Rs 1.5 Lakh Income Tax Deduction On Loans Taken To Buy Electric Vehicles Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will provide income tax deduction of Rs 1.5 lakh on interest paid on loans taken for purchase of electric vehicles. The finance minister also proposed investment-linked tax benefit on manufac... WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba. Congestion tax? The Grattan Institute is wrong, Constance says NSW Transport Minister Andrew Constance speaks to reporters in Sydney, fielding a question on a tax on drivers coming into the city. Mr Constance rejects the Grattan Institute's recommendation that congestion charging for the morning and afternoon... Telstra updates FY20 guidance for NBN Cos Corporate Plan 2020 02 Sep 2019 - Telstra (ASX:TLS) has today updated its FY20 guidance, following the release of NBN Cos Corporate Plan 2020 last Friday. Frydenberg won't be drawn on future income tax cuts - attacks Labor's tax agenda Treasurer Josh Frydenberg refuses to be drawn on whether the Coalition has further income tax cuts planned for the next term of government, pivoting instead to an attack on Labor's planned reforms. Reality Check: Myth Of Tax Cuts Can the recent corporate tax cuts announced by the Finance Minister reverse the economic downturn by boosting investment?  Reality Check discusses. WATCH: Public Protector on Pravin Gordhan SARS probe Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane says she subpoenaed Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan so he could give his "side of the story" about the establishment of a so-called "rogue unit" at the SA Revenue Service. WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant.